website/docs/data_formats/coordinate_convention/3d_coordinate_frame_convention.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions for Project Aria Glasses

This page provides an overview of 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions used for Project Aria glasses, covering:
* Representation of 6-DoF poses
* 3D Coordinate frame and system conventions
* Non-visual sensor coordinate systems
* Central Pupil Frame (CPF)

## SE(3) Lie groups
The 6-DoF poses are represented by SE(3) Lie group. The quaternion part of SE(3) uses Hamilton convention following the [Eigen library](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/), in which the exact formula to convert a quaternion to a rotation matrix of the SE(3) can be found [here](https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen/-/blob/master/Eigen/src/Geometry/Quaternion.h#L821-859).
We use the SE3d class in the [Sophus Library](https://github.com/strasdat/Sophus) to represent SE(3) Lie groups, and provide a minimal pybind for the class.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
`transform_a_b` represents a SE(3) rigid transformation from `b` coordinate frame to `a` coordinate frame. `p_a` represents an R^3 point (or vector) in the coordinate system of a.
Easy mnemonics of the chaining principle (a, b, c are coordinate frames):
```python
transform_a_c = transform_a_b * transform_b_c;
p_a = transform_a_b.matrix() @ numpy.append(p_b, 1)
```

If you want to get quaternion from the SE3d, please notice the order is consistent to numpy
```python
quaternion_a_b = transform_a_b.quaternion() # order is w, x, y, z
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
`T_a_b` represents a SE(3) rigid transformation from `b` coordinate frame to `a` coordinate frame. `p_a` represents an R^3 point (or vector) in the coordinate system of a.
Easy mnemonics of the chaining principle (a, b, c are coordinate frames):
```cpp
Sophus::SE3d T_A_C = T_A_B * T_B_C;
Eigen::Vector3d p_A = T_A_B * p_B;
```
If you want to get quaternion from the SE3d, please notice the order in Sophus interface
```cpp
quaternion_a_b = T_a_b.so3().unit_quaternion() # order is x, y, z, w
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

# 3D Coordinate frame conventions

Every sensor on Aria glasses has their own local coordinate system. We represent the 6DoF pose of each sensor as the relative pose (rotation and translation) with regard to the  “Device frame". The device frame is by-default the local frame of the left SLAM camera.



![Project Aria device with the x, y and z axises for each sensor](/img/data_formats/aria_local_frames.png)

## Camera coordinate system convention

A camera's local frame has its origin at the camera's optical center. Coarsely, when the camera is placed up-right, the camera coordinate frame's axes points to left, up and forward.

More rigorously, we define a camera's local frame based on the optical axis and the entrance pupil of its lens. Both are uniquely defined for each camera according to the camera's lens prescription. The origin of a camera's local frame is at center of the camera's entrance pupil.
The frame's Z axis is aligned with the optical axis. The camera's X axis are aligned with the projection of the image plane's X axis on the entrance pupil plane. The cross-product of the X and Z axis defines the system's Y axis.

![Diagram of Project Aria coordinates, showing the Optical center and the Lens FOV](/img/data_formats/camera3d-coordinate-frame.png)


## Non-visual sensor coordinate system

We choose the IMU coordinate systems to have their origins at the position of the accelerometer, oriented along the direction of the accelerometer sensitive axis, eventually orthogonalized to compensate for sensor orthogonalities error.
We use a similar arrangement for the magnetometer.


<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![Diagram of Project Aria glasses IMU coordinates](/img/data_formats/ImuFrame.png)

</div>

## The nominal Central Pupil Frame (CPF)

The CPF frame is placed at the midpoint between the eye boxes of the left and right eye. CPF's X-axis points left, Y-axis points up and the Z-axis points forward, from the person's perspective. Aria's ET gaze is defined as a vector in the CPF space originating at $(0, 0, 0)$ of the CPF frame.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![3D model of a head showing the CPF used in Project Aria data](/img/data_formats/CPF.png)

</div>

Commit message:

{Documentation} Extra info about 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions
Summary: Add details about sensor naming and motivation to 3d_coordinate_frame_convention

Reviewed By: chpeng-fb

Differential Revision: D49070680

fbshipit-source-id: a997082ca8125a976322af424769c0a06548f4cc

website/docs/data_formats/coordinate_convention/3d_coordinate_frame_convention.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions for Project Aria Glasses

This page provides an overview of 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions used for Project Aria glasses, covering:
* Representation of 6-DoF poses
* 3D Coordinate frame and system conventions
* Non-visual sensor coordinate systems
* Central Pupil Frame (CPF)

## SE(3) Lie groups
The 6-DoF poses are represented by SE(3) Lie group. The quaternion part of SE(3) uses Hamilton convention following the [Eigen library](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/), in which the exact formula to convert a quaternion to a rotation matrix of the SE(3) can be found [in the Eigen code repository](https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen/-/blob/master/Eigen/src/Geometry/Quaternion.h#L821-859).

We use the SE3d class in the [Sophus Library](https://github.com/strasdat/Sophus) to represent SE(3) Lie groups, and provide a minimal pybind for the class.

### A note on sensor naming and motivation
T\_sensor1\_sensor2 represents a relative SE(3) transformation from sensor2 frame to sensor1 frame. An easy mnemonic is the chaining principle is: T\_<span style={{color: 'blue'}}>sensor1</span>_<span style={{color: 'green'}}>sensor2</span> * T_<span style={{color: 'green'}}>sensor2</span>_<span style={{color: 'orange'}}>sensor3</span> * p_<span style={{color: 'orange'}}>sensor3</span> = p_<span style={{color: 'blue'}}>sensor1</span> (where p_sensor is a 3D point measured from sensor)

### Code
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
`transform_a_b` represents a SE(3) rigid transformation from `b` coordinate frame to `a` coordinate frame. `p_a` represents an R^3 point (or vector) in the coordinate system of a.
Easy mnemonics of the chaining principle (a, b, c are coordinate frames):
```python
transform_a_c = transform_a_b * transform_b_c;
p_a = transform_a_b.matrix() @ numpy.append(p_b, 1)
```

If you want to get quaternion from the SE3d, please notice the order is consistent to numpy
```python
quaternion_a_b = transform_a_b.quaternion() # order is w, x, y, z
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
`T_a_b` represents a SE(3) rigid transformation from `b` coordinate frame to `a` coordinate frame. `p_a` represents an R^3 point (or vector) in the coordinate system of a.
Easy mnemonics of the chaining principle (a, b, c are coordinate frames):
```cpp
Sophus::SE3d T_A_C = T_A_B * T_B_C;
Eigen::Vector3d p_A = T_A_B * p_B;
```
If you want to get quaternion from the SE3d, please notice the order in Sophus interface
```cpp
quaternion_a_b = T_a_b.so3().unit_quaternion() # order is x, y, z, w
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

# 3D Coordinate frame conventions

Every sensor on Aria glasses has their own local coordinate system. We represent the 6DoF pose of each sensor as the relative pose (rotation and translation) with regard to the  “Device frame". The device frame is by-default the local frame of the left Mono Scene (SLAM) camera.



![Project Aria device with the x, y and z axises for each sensor](/img/data_formats/aria_local_frames.png)

## Camera coordinate system convention

A camera's local frame has its origin at the camera's optical center. Coarsely, when the camera is placed up-right, the camera coordinate frame's axes points to left, up and forward.

More rigorously, we define a camera's local frame based on the optical axis and the entrance pupil of its lens. Both are uniquely defined for each camera according to the camera's lens prescription. The origin of a camera's local frame is at center of the camera's entrance pupil.
The frame's Z axis is aligned with the optical axis. The camera's X axis are aligned with the projection of the image plane's X axis on the entrance pupil plane. The cross-product of the X and Z axis defines the system's Y axis.

![Diagram of Project Aria coordinates, showing the Optical center and the Lens FOV](/img/data_formats/camera3d-coordinate-frame.png)


## Non-visual sensor coordinate system

We choose the IMU coordinate systems to have their origins at the position of the accelerometer, oriented along the direction of the accelerometer sensitive axis, eventually orthogonalized to compensate for sensor orthogonalities error.
We use a similar arrangement for the magnetometer.


<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![Diagram of Project Aria glasses IMU coordinates](/img/data_formats/ImuFrame.png)

</div>

## The nominal Central Pupil Frame (CPF)

The CPF frame is placed at the midpoint between the eye boxes of the left and right eye. CPF's X-axis points left, Y-axis points up and the Z-axis points forward, from the person's perspective. Aria's ET gaze is defined as a vector in the CPF space originating at $(0, 0, 0)$ of the CPF frame.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![3D model of a head showing the CPF used in Project Aria data](/img/data_formats/CPF.png)

</div>
