website/docs/attribution_citation/attribution_citation.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Attribution and Contributing
---

## Citation

### Project Aria Tools

If you use Project Aria tools or data in your research, please consider starring ⭐ our [github repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools),
and citing the [Project Aria Whitepaper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eAgYMXbI6zNtTC6c9eEOctMGG8u43rJS/view).

```
@misc{ariawhitepaper23,
      title={Project Aria},
      author={Project Aria team},
      year={2023},
      howpublished={\url{https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eAgYMXbI6zNtTC6c9eEOctMGG8u43rJS/view}},
}
```


### Aria Digital Twin Dataset
If you use Aria Digital Twin dataset and its tools, please cite the [Aria Digital Twin dataset paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.06362):

```
@misc{pan2023aria,
      title={Aria Digital Twin: A New Benchmark Dataset for Egocentric 3D Machine Perception},
      author={Xiaqing Pan and Nicholas Charron and Yongqian Yang and Scott Peters and Thomas Whelan and Chen Kong and Omkar Parkhi and Richard Newcombe and Carl Yuheng Ren},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2306.06362},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

### Aria Synthetic Environments Dataset
If you use Aria Synthetic Environments Dataset and its tools, please cite the Aria Synthetic Environments dataset paper (coming soon).

### Aria Pilot Dataset
If you use the Aria Pilot Dataset in GitHub, please cite

```
@misc{aria_pilot_dataset,
    title           = {Aria Pilot Dataset},
    author          = {Zhaoyang Lv and Edward Miller and Jeff Meissner and Luis Pesqueira and
    Chris Sweeney and Jing Dong and Lingni Ma and Pratik Patel and Pierre Moulon and
    Kiran Somasundaram and Omkar Parkhi and Yuyang Zou and Nikhil Raina and Steve Saarinen
    and Yusuf M Mansour and Po-Kang Huang and Zijian Wang and Anton Troynikov and Raul Mur Artal
    and Daniel DeTone and Daniel Barnes and Elizabeth Argall and Andrey Lobanovskiy and
    David Jaeyun Kim and Philippe Bouttefroy and Julian Straub and Jakob Julian Engel and
    Prince Gupta and Mingfei Yan and Renzo De Nardi and Richard Newcombe},
    howpublished    = {\url{https://about.facebook.com/realitylabs/projectaria/datasets}},
    year            = {2022}
}
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details about how to get started, and our [code of conduct](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

{Documentation} Update Project Aria paper link
Summary: `Project Aria: A New Tool for Egocentric Multi-Modal AI Research` is now on arXiv, we are here updating the relevant links.

Reviewed By: goesele

Differential Revision: D48871284

fbshipit-source-id: 45e34ebbfa398900602aacc3d75baf9faeb21cf4

website/docs/attribution_citation/attribution_citation.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Attribution and Contributing
---

## Citation

### Project Aria Tools

If you use Project Aria tools or data in your research, please consider starring ⭐ our [github repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools),
and citing the [Project Aria Whitepaper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.13561).

```
@misc{ariawhitepaper23,
      title={Project Aria: A New Tool for Egocentric Multi-Modal AI Research},
      author={Kiran Somasundaram and Jing Dong and Huixuan Tang and Julian Straub and Mingfei Yan and Michael Goesele and Jakob Julian Engel and Renzo De Nardi and Richard Newcombe},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2308.13561},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.HC}
}
```


### Aria Digital Twin Dataset
If you use Aria Digital Twin dataset and its tools, please cite the [Aria Digital Twin dataset paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.06362):

```
@misc{pan2023aria,
      title={Aria Digital Twin: A New Benchmark Dataset for Egocentric 3D Machine Perception},
      author={Xiaqing Pan and Nicholas Charron and Yongqian Yang and Scott Peters and Thomas Whelan and Chen Kong and Omkar Parkhi and Richard Newcombe and Carl Yuheng Ren},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2306.06362},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV}
}
```

### Aria Synthetic Environments Dataset
If you use Aria Synthetic Environments Dataset and its tools, please cite the Aria Synthetic Environments dataset paper (coming soon).

### Aria Pilot Dataset
If you use the Aria Pilot Dataset in GitHub, please cite

```
@misc{aria_pilot_dataset,
    title           = {Aria Pilot Dataset},
    author          = {Zhaoyang Lv and Edward Miller and Jeff Meissner and Luis Pesqueira and
    Chris Sweeney and Jing Dong and Lingni Ma and Pratik Patel and Pierre Moulon and
    Kiran Somasundaram and Omkar Parkhi and Yuyang Zou and Nikhil Raina and Steve Saarinen
    and Yusuf M Mansour and Po-Kang Huang and Zijian Wang and Anton Troynikov and Raul Mur Artal
    and Daniel DeTone and Daniel Barnes and Elizabeth Argall and Andrey Lobanovskiy and
    David Jaeyun Kim and Philippe Bouttefroy and Julian Straub and Jakob Julian Engel and
    Prince Gupta and Mingfei Yan and Renzo De Nardi and Richard Newcombe},
    howpublished    = {\url{https://about.facebook.com/realitylabs/projectaria/datasets}},
    year            = {2022}
}
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details about how to get started, and our [code of conduct](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
