website/docs/data_utilities/advanced_code_snippets/plotting_sensor_data.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Plot Sensor Data (Python)
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Tutorial: How to Plot Sensor Data Using Python

This tutorial shows how to plot Project Aria sensor data using Python. This example covers how to:

* Save images as PNGs
* Plot raw sensor data from a VRS file and store the plots in PDF files
   * Data is plotted with `matplotlib`

We start by opening a VRS file:
```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider, image
from projectaria_tools.core.stream_id import StreamId

vrsfile = "example.vrs"
provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrsfile)
```

### Save Images as PNGs
Because we support converting image data to numpy arrays, images can be converted to PIL images and saved as PNG files.
```python
from PIL import Image
stream_mappings = {
    "camera-slam-left": StreamId("1201-1"),
    "camera-slam-right": StreamId("1201-2"),
    "camera-rgb": StreamId("214-1"),
    "camera-eyetracking": StreamId("211-1"),
}

index = 1 # sample index (as an example)
for [stream_name, stream_id] in stream_mappings.items():
    image = provider.get_image_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
    Image.fromarray(image[0].to_numpy_array()).save(f'{stream_name}.png')
```

The above snippets will save the following images to the local folder:
<table>
        <tr>
            <td>SLAM images</td>
            <td><img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-slam-left.png")} alt="camera-slam-left" width="320"></img>
            <img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-slam-right.png")} alt="camera-slam-right" width="320"></img></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Eye Tracking images</td>
            <td><img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-eyetracking.png")} alt="camera-et"></img></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>RGB images</td>
            <td><img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-rgb.png")} alt="camera-rgb"  width="320"></img></td>
        </tr>
</table>


### Plotting IMU
1. Organize the data into 6 lists. Each list stores one axis of a specific IMU.

```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("imu-left")
accel_x = []
accel_y = []
accel_z = []
gyro_x = []
gyro_y = []
gyro_z = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  imu_data = provider.get_imu_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  accel_x.append(imu_data.accel_msec2[0])
  accel_y.append(imu_data.accel_msec2[1])
  accel_z.append(imu_data.accel_msec2[2])
  gyro_x.append(imu_data.gyro_radsec[0])
  gyro_y.append(imu_data.gyro_radsec[1])
  gyro_z.append(imu_data.gyro_radsec[2])
  timestamps.append(imu_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2.  Plot the data with `matplotlib`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"{stream_id.get_name()}")

axes[0].plot(timestamps, accel_x, 'r-', label="x")
axes[0].plot(timestamps, accel_y, 'g-', label="y")
axes[0].plot(timestamps, accel_z, 'b-', label="z")
axes[0].legend(loc='upper left')
axes[0].grid('on')
axes[0].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[0].set_ylabel('accelerometer readout (m/sec2)')

axes[1].plot(timestamps, gyro_x, 'r-', label="x")
axes[1].plot(timestamps, gyro_y, 'g-', label="y")
axes[1].plot(timestamps, gyro_z, 'b-', label="z")
axes[1].legend(loc='upper left')
axes[1].grid('on')
axes[1].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[1].set_ylabel('gyroscope readout (rad/sec)')
```

The plotted image looks like this:
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/imu.png)

3. Save the plot to PDF
```python
plt.savefig("imu.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

### Magnetometer
Plotting magnetometer is similar to plotting IMU.
1. Organize the data into 3 lists. Each list stores one axis of magnetometer data.
```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("mag0")
mag_x = []
mag_y = []
mag_z = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  mag_data = provider.get_magnetometer_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  mag_x.append(mag_data.mag_tesla[0] * 1e6)
  mag_y.append(mag_data.mag_tesla[1] * 1e6)
  mag_z.append(mag_data.mag_tesla[2] * 1e6)
  timestamps.append(mag_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2.  Plot the data with `matplotlib`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Magnetometer signal")

axes.plot(timestamps, mag_x, 'r-', label="x")
axes.plot(timestamps, mag_y, 'g-', label="y")
axes.plot(timestamps, mag_z, 'b-', label="z")
axes.legend(loc='upper left')
axes.grid('on')
axes.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes.set_ylabel('magnetometer readout (uT)')
plt.savefig("mag.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/mag.png)

### Audio
Audio data is interesting since each data is in fact a 7x4096 chunk

1. Load the audio data
```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("mic")
timestamps = []
audio = [[] for c in range(0, 7)]
for index in range(0, 2):
  audio_data_i = provider.get_audio_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  audio_signal_block = audio_data_i[0].data
  timestamps_block = [t * 1e-9 for t in audio_data_i[1].capture_timestamps_ns];
  timestamps += timestamps_block
  for c in range(0, 7):
    audio[c] += audio_signal_block[c::7]
```
2. Plot the data with `matplotlib`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Microphone signal")
for c in range(0, 7):
  plt.plot(timestamps, audio[c], '-', label = f"channel {c}")
axes.legend(loc='upper left')
axes.grid('on')
axes.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes.set_ylabel('audio readout')
plt.savefig("audio.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/audio.png)

### Barometer

1. Load and plot the data using the following commands

```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Barometer signal")

stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("baro0")
pressure = []
temperature = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  baro_data = provider.get_barometer_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  pressure.append(baro_data.pressure * 1e-3)
  temperature.append(baro_data.temperature)
  timestamps.append(baro_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)

axes[0].plot(timestamps, pressure, 'r-')
axes[0].grid('on')
axes[0].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[0].set_ylabel('pressure readout (kPascal)')

axes[1].plot(timestamps, temperature, 'r-')
axes[1].grid('on')
axes[1].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[1].set_ylabel('temperature readout (C)')

plt.savefig("baro.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/baro.png)![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/temperature.png)

### GPS

GPS data can be visualized with 2D or 3D plots.

#### 2D plots

```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 3, figsize=(12, 3))
fig.suptitle(f"GPS signal")

stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("gnss")
latitude = []
longitude = []
altitude = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(100, 300):
  gps_data = provider.get_gps_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  latitude.append(gps_data.latitude)
  longitude.append(gps_data.longitude)
  altitude.append(gps_data.altitude)
  timestamps.append(gps_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)

ax = axes[0]
ax.plot(timestamps, latitude, 'r-')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('latitude')
ax.yaxis.set_major_formatter(ticker.ScalarFormatter(useMathText=True, useOffset=False))

ax = axes[1]
ax.plot(timestamps, longitude, 'r-')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('longitude')
ax.yaxis.set_major_formatter(ticker.ScalarFormatter(useMathText=True, useOffset=False))

ax = axes[2]
ax.plot(timestamps, altitude, 'r-')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('altitude')
ax.yaxis.set_major_formatter(ticker.ScalarFormatter(useMathText=True, useOffset=False))

fig.tight_layout()
plt.savefig("gps.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/gps2d.png)

####  3D plots

```python
plt.figure()
fig = plt.figure()

axes = fig.add_subplot(projection='3d')
axes.plot(latitude, longitude, altitude)
axes.view_init(elev=20., azim=-35, roll=0)
plt.savefig("gps3d.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/gps3d.png)

### Wi-Fi beacon
 1. Group the Wi-Fi beacon data by mac bssid
```
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("wps")
rssi = {}
timestamps = {}
print(provider.get_num_data(stream_id))
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  wps_data = provider.get_wps_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  if wps_data.bssid_mac not in rssi:
    rssi[wps_data.bssid_mac] = []
    timestamps[wps_data.bssid_mac] = []
  rssi[wps_data.bssid_mac].append(wps_data.rssi)
  timestamps[wps_data.bssid_mac].append(wps_data.board_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2. Plot the mac address
   * This example has > 15 samples
```python
plt.figure()
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(6, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Wi-Fi beacon signal")

for ssid in list(timestamps.keys()):
  if len(timestamps[ssid]) < 15:
    continue
  ax.scatter(timestamps[ssid], rssi[ssid], label=ssid)

ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('Wi-Fi RSSI(dBm)')
plt.legend(loc='upper left')
plt.savefig("wifi.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/wifi.png)

### Bluetooth beacon
1. Group data by `unique_id` (similar to Wi-Fi grouping)
```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("bluetooth")
rssi = {}
timestamps = {}

for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  bluetooth_data = provider.get_bluetooth_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  if bluetooth_data.unique_id not in rssi:
    rssi[bluetooth_data.unique_id] = []
    timestamps[bluetooth_data.unique_id] = []
  rssi[bluetooth_data.unique_id].append(bluetooth_data.rssi)
  timestamps[bluetooth_data.unique_id].append(bluetooth_data.board_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2. Plot the data per `unique_id`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(6, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Bluetooth beacon signal")

for ssid in list(timestamps.keys()):
  ax.plot(timestamps[ssid], rssi[ssid], '.')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('bluetooth RSSI(dBm')
fig.tight_layout()

plt.savefig("ble.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/ble.png)

Commit message:

{Documentation} IMU/Trajectory data
Summary: Improve links between IMU raw data and using Trajectory data.

Reviewed By: PiotrBrzyski

Differential Revision: D58840877

fbshipit-source-id: a35bd810dec438c3d3eab380006832ad7b1a67ae

website/docs/data_utilities/advanced_code_snippets/plotting_sensor_data.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Plot Sensor Data (Python)
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Tutorial: How to Plot Sensor Data Using Python

This tutorial shows how to plot Project Aria sensor data using Python. This example covers how to:

* Save images as PNGs
* Plot raw sensor data from a VRS file and store the plots in PDF files
   * Data is plotted with `matplotlib`

We start by opening a VRS file:
```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider, image
from projectaria_tools.core.stream_id import StreamId

vrsfile = "example.vrs"
provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrsfile)
```

### Save Images as PNGs
Because we support converting image data to numpy arrays, images can be converted to PIL images and saved as PNG files.
```python
from PIL import Image
stream_mappings = {
    "camera-slam-left": StreamId("1201-1"),
    "camera-slam-right": StreamId("1201-2"),
    "camera-rgb": StreamId("214-1"),
    "camera-eyetracking": StreamId("211-1"),
}

index = 1 # sample index (as an example)
for [stream_name, stream_id] in stream_mappings.items():
    image = provider.get_image_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
    Image.fromarray(image[0].to_numpy_array()).save(f'{stream_name}.png')
```

The above snippets will save the following images to the local folder:
<table>
        <tr>
            <td>SLAM images</td>
            <td><img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-slam-left.png")} alt="camera-slam-left" width="320"></img>
            <img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-slam-right.png")} alt="camera-slam-right" width="320"></img></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Eye Tracking images</td>
            <td><img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-eyetracking.png")} alt="camera-et"></img></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>RGB images</td>
            <td><img src={useBaseUrl("/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/camera-rgb.png")} alt="camera-rgb"  width="320"></img></td>
        </tr>
</table>


### Plotting IMU

We recommend using [Trajectory MPS outputs](/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_trajectory.mdx) instead of raw IMU data wherever possible. There may be instances, however, when you need to work directly with the IMU data.

1. Organize the data into 6 lists. Each list stores one axis of a specific IMU.

```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("imu-left")
accel_x = []
accel_y = []
accel_z = []
gyro_x = []
gyro_y = []
gyro_z = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  imu_data = provider.get_imu_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  accel_x.append(imu_data.accel_msec2[0])
  accel_y.append(imu_data.accel_msec2[1])
  accel_z.append(imu_data.accel_msec2[2])
  gyro_x.append(imu_data.gyro_radsec[0])
  gyro_y.append(imu_data.gyro_radsec[1])
  gyro_z.append(imu_data.gyro_radsec[2])
  timestamps.append(imu_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2.  Plot the data with `matplotlib`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"{stream_id.get_name()}")

axes[0].plot(timestamps, accel_x, 'r-', label="x")
axes[0].plot(timestamps, accel_y, 'g-', label="y")
axes[0].plot(timestamps, accel_z, 'b-', label="z")
axes[0].legend(loc='upper left')
axes[0].grid('on')
axes[0].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[0].set_ylabel('accelerometer readout (m/sec2)')

axes[1].plot(timestamps, gyro_x, 'r-', label="x")
axes[1].plot(timestamps, gyro_y, 'g-', label="y")
axes[1].plot(timestamps, gyro_z, 'b-', label="z")
axes[1].legend(loc='upper left')
axes[1].grid('on')
axes[1].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[1].set_ylabel('gyroscope readout (rad/sec)')
```

The plotted image looks like this:
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/imu.png)

3. Save the plot to PDF
```python
plt.savefig("imu.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

### Magnetometer
Plotting magnetometer is similar to plotting IMU.
1. Organize the data into 3 lists. Each list stores one axis of magnetometer data.
```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("mag0")
mag_x = []
mag_y = []
mag_z = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  mag_data = provider.get_magnetometer_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  mag_x.append(mag_data.mag_tesla[0] * 1e6)
  mag_y.append(mag_data.mag_tesla[1] * 1e6)
  mag_z.append(mag_data.mag_tesla[2] * 1e6)
  timestamps.append(mag_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2.  Plot the data with `matplotlib`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Magnetometer signal")

axes.plot(timestamps, mag_x, 'r-', label="x")
axes.plot(timestamps, mag_y, 'g-', label="y")
axes.plot(timestamps, mag_z, 'b-', label="z")
axes.legend(loc='upper left')
axes.grid('on')
axes.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes.set_ylabel('magnetometer readout (uT)')
plt.savefig("mag.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/mag.png)

### Audio
Audio data is interesting since each data is in fact a 7x4096 chunk

1. Load the audio data
```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("mic")
timestamps = []
audio = [[] for c in range(0, 7)]
for index in range(0, 2):
  audio_data_i = provider.get_audio_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  audio_signal_block = audio_data_i[0].data
  timestamps_block = [t * 1e-9 for t in audio_data_i[1].capture_timestamps_ns];
  timestamps += timestamps_block
  for c in range(0, 7):
    audio[c] += audio_signal_block[c::7]
```
2. Plot the data with `matplotlib`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Microphone signal")
for c in range(0, 7):
  plt.plot(timestamps, audio[c], '-', label = f"channel {c}")
axes.legend(loc='upper left')
axes.grid('on')
axes.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes.set_ylabel('audio readout')
plt.savefig("audio.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/audio.png)

### Barometer

1. Load and plot the data using the following commands

```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 2, figsize=(12, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Barometer signal")

stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("baro0")
pressure = []
temperature = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  baro_data = provider.get_barometer_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  pressure.append(baro_data.pressure * 1e-3)
  temperature.append(baro_data.temperature)
  timestamps.append(baro_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)

axes[0].plot(timestamps, pressure, 'r-')
axes[0].grid('on')
axes[0].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[0].set_ylabel('pressure readout (kPascal)')

axes[1].plot(timestamps, temperature, 'r-')
axes[1].grid('on')
axes[1].set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
axes[1].set_ylabel('temperature readout (C)')

plt.savefig("baro.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```

![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/baro.png)![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/temperature.png)

### GPS

GPS data can be visualized with 2D or 3D plots.

#### 2D plots

```python
plt.figure()
fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 3, figsize=(12, 3))
fig.suptitle(f"GPS signal")

stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("gnss")
latitude = []
longitude = []
altitude = []
timestamps = []
for index in range(100, 300):
  gps_data = provider.get_gps_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  latitude.append(gps_data.latitude)
  longitude.append(gps_data.longitude)
  altitude.append(gps_data.altitude)
  timestamps.append(gps_data.capture_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)

ax = axes[0]
ax.plot(timestamps, latitude, 'r-')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('latitude')
ax.yaxis.set_major_formatter(ticker.ScalarFormatter(useMathText=True, useOffset=False))

ax = axes[1]
ax.plot(timestamps, longitude, 'r-')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('longitude')
ax.yaxis.set_major_formatter(ticker.ScalarFormatter(useMathText=True, useOffset=False))

ax = axes[2]
ax.plot(timestamps, altitude, 'r-')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('altitude')
ax.yaxis.set_major_formatter(ticker.ScalarFormatter(useMathText=True, useOffset=False))

fig.tight_layout()
plt.savefig("gps.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/gps2d.png)

####  3D plots

```python
plt.figure()
fig = plt.figure()

axes = fig.add_subplot(projection='3d')
axes.plot(latitude, longitude, altitude)
axes.view_init(elev=20., azim=-35, roll=0)
plt.savefig("gps3d.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/gps3d.png)

### Wi-Fi beacon
 1. Group the Wi-Fi beacon data by mac bssid
```
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("wps")
rssi = {}
timestamps = {}
print(provider.get_num_data(stream_id))
for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  wps_data = provider.get_wps_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  if wps_data.bssid_mac not in rssi:
    rssi[wps_data.bssid_mac] = []
    timestamps[wps_data.bssid_mac] = []
  rssi[wps_data.bssid_mac].append(wps_data.rssi)
  timestamps[wps_data.bssid_mac].append(wps_data.board_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2. Plot the mac address
   * This example has > 15 samples
```python
plt.figure()
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(6, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Wi-Fi beacon signal")

for ssid in list(timestamps.keys()):
  if len(timestamps[ssid]) < 15:
    continue
  ax.scatter(timestamps[ssid], rssi[ssid], label=ssid)

ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('Wi-Fi RSSI(dBm)')
plt.legend(loc='upper left')
plt.savefig("wifi.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/wifi.png)

### Bluetooth beacon
1. Group data by `unique_id` (similar to Wi-Fi grouping)
```python
stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("bluetooth")
rssi = {}
timestamps = {}

for index in range(0, provider.get_num_data(stream_id)):
  bluetooth_data = provider.get_bluetooth_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
  if bluetooth_data.unique_id not in rssi:
    rssi[bluetooth_data.unique_id] = []
    timestamps[bluetooth_data.unique_id] = []
  rssi[bluetooth_data.unique_id].append(bluetooth_data.rssi)
  timestamps[bluetooth_data.unique_id].append(bluetooth_data.board_timestamp_ns * 1e-9)
```
2. Plot the data per `unique_id`
```python
plt.figure()
fig, ax = plt.subplots(1, 1, figsize=(6, 5))
fig.suptitle(f"Bluetooth beacon signal")

for ssid in list(timestamps.keys()):
  ax.plot(timestamps[ssid], rssi[ssid], '.')
ax.grid('on')
ax.set_xlabel('timestamps (s)')
ax.set_ylabel('bluetooth RSSI(dBm')
fig.tight_layout()

plt.savefig("ble.pdf", format="pdf", bbox_inches="tight")
```
![Image](/img//data_utilities/advanced_guide/ble.png)
