website/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/api_reference.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Command Reference
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Aria CLI Command References

## Overview
This page provides all of the commands available when using the Project Aria CLI (installed as part of the [Client SDK](/docs/ARK/sdk)). You can also use [ADB](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb) to interact with Project Aria glasses.

For any command with [OPTIONS], use --help or -h to find out about the options and subcommands available.

## Authentication

Manage device pairing with external client over Wi-Fi and USB

```
aria auth [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```

### pair

Pair device with client

```
aria auth pair
```

### unpair

Unpair device from client

```
aria auth unpair
```

## Device

Control device.

```
aria device [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```


### list

List connected USB devices.

```
aria device list
```

### info

Get device info.

```
aria device info
```


### status

Get device status.

```
aria device status
```

### default-profile

Manage default profile.

```
aria device default-profile [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```

#### Subcommands include

```
--status
```

Get default profile status.

```
--set
```

Set default profile.

## Recording

Control device recording.

```bash
aria recording [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```


### start

Start recording.

```
aria recording start [OPTIONS]
```


#### Options

```
--profile (string)
```

Recording profile name.

### stop

Stop recording.

```
aria recording stop
```

### profiles

List recording profiles.

```
aria recording profiles [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--save-json (string)
```

Save profiles as JSON files.

```
--json-dir (string)
```

Location of directory where profiles will be saved as JSON files.

## Streaming

Control device streaming.

```
aria streaming [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```


### start

Start streaming


```
aria streaming start [OPTIONS]
```


#### Options

```
--profile (string)
```

Streaming profile name.

```
--topic-prefix (string)
```

Streaming topic prefix.

```
--interface (string)
```

Streaming interface name. Values can be:[usb] - Streaming over USB. [wifi] - Streaming over Wi-Fi network. [hotspot] - Streaming over Aria Wi-Fi hotspot.

```
--use-ephemeral-certs (flag)
```

Use ephemeral streaming certs on both device and local host (see aria streaming install-certs --help)

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory. Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

### Stop

Stop streaming.

```
aria streaming stop [OPTIONS]
```

### Options

```
--remove-ephemeral-certs (flag)
```

Remove ephemeral streaming certs from local host.

Use aria streaming uninstall-certs --help for commands to uninstall ephemeral certs on Aria glasses and local host.

:::info
Ephemeral certificates should automatically expire and be removed when streaming stops.
:::

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory.

Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

### profiles

List streaming profiles.

```
aria streaming profiles [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--save-json (flag)
```

Save profiles as JSON files.

```
--json-dir (string)
```

Location of directory where profiles will be saved as JSON files.

### install-certs

Installs streaming certificates on Aria glasses and on the local host.

```
aria streaming install-certs [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory. Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

### uninstall-certs

Removes streaming certificates on Aria glasses and on the local host.

```
aria streaming uninstall-certs [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory. Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor update
Summary:
* Add download Aria data details to CLI content
* Update Workplace Group title

Reviewed By: nicholasstrickland

Differential Revision: D57346289

fbshipit-source-id: 46c320b274885e6f5470df68a6e6fc5d7c752df0

website/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/api_reference.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Command Reference
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Aria CLI Command References

## Overview
This page provides all of the commands available when using the Project Aria CLI (installed as part of the [Client SDK](/docs/ARK/sdk)). You can also use [ADB](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb) to interact with Project Aria glasses.

For any command with [OPTIONS], use --help or -h to find out about the options and subcommands available.

## Authentication

Manage device pairing with external client over Wi-Fi and USB

```
aria auth [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```

### pair

Pair device with client

```
aria auth pair
```

### unpair

Unpair device from client

```
aria auth unpair
```

## Device

Control device.

```
aria device [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```


### list

List connected USB devices.

```
aria device list
```

### info

Get device info.

```
aria device info
```


### status

Get device status.

```
aria device status
```

### default-profile

Manage default profile.

```
aria device default-profile [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```

#### Subcommands include

```
--status
```

Get default profile status.

```
--set
```

Set default profile.

## Recording

Control device recording.

```bash
aria recording [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```


### start

Start recording.

```
aria recording start [OPTIONS]
```


#### Options

```
--profile (string)
```

Recording profile name.

### stop

Stop recording.

```
aria recording stop
```

:::tip
Go to the [Downloads section](/ARK/ARK_quickstart.mdx#download-data) of the [Project Aria Glasses Quickstart Guide](/ARK/ARK_quickstart.mdx) for ways to download Aria data.
:::

### profiles

List recording profiles.

```
aria recording profiles [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--save-json (string)
```

Save profiles as JSON files.

```
--json-dir (string)
```

Location of directory where profiles will be saved as JSON files.

## Streaming

Control device streaming.

```
aria streaming [OPTIONS] SUBCOMMAND
```


### start

Start streaming


```
aria streaming start [OPTIONS]
```


#### Options

```
--profile (string)
```

Streaming profile name.

```
--topic-prefix (string)
```

Streaming topic prefix.

```
--interface (string)
```

Streaming interface name. Values can be:[usb] - Streaming over USB. [wifi] - Streaming over Wi-Fi network. [hotspot] - Streaming over Aria Wi-Fi hotspot.

```
--use-ephemeral-certs (flag)
```

Use ephemeral streaming certs on both device and local host (see aria streaming install-certs --help)

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory. Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

### Stop

Stop streaming.

```
aria streaming stop [OPTIONS]
```

### Options

```
--remove-ephemeral-certs (flag)
```

Remove ephemeral streaming certs from local host.

Use aria streaming uninstall-certs --help for commands to uninstall ephemeral certs on Aria glasses and local host.

:::info
Ephemeral certificates should automatically expire and be removed when streaming stops.
:::

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory.

Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

### profiles

List streaming profiles.

```
aria streaming profiles [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--save-json (flag)
```

Save profiles as JSON files.

```
--json-dir (string)
```

Location of directory where profiles will be saved as JSON files.

### install-certs

Installs streaming certificates on Aria glasses and on the local host.

```
aria streaming install-certs [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory. Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.

### uninstall-certs

Removes streaming certificates on Aria glasses and on the local host.

```
aria streaming uninstall-certs [OPTIONS]
```

#### Options

```
--local-certs-dir (string)
```

Local streaming certificates directory. Use to specify the local directory where local streaming certificates are installed on local host.
