website/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/cli.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Aria CLI
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Aria CLI

## Overview
This page provides an overview of Aria CLI features and a few useful commands, go to the [Command Reference page](/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/api_reference) for a full list.

## About the CLI

`Aria CLI` is a simple command line binary available on Linux and Mac which allows users to control their Project Aria glasses via CLI commands.

The CLI currently provides the ability to:
- Pair the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Connect to the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Retrieve the device status and information
- Control Aria recording capabilities
- Control Aria streaming capabilities

:::caution
To be able to use these commands, follow the [setup instructions](/docs/ARK/sdk/setup.mdx) to install the CLI, and pair your glasses.
:::

## Help

```
aria --help
```

will show you available options and subcommands.

## Connecting

You can connect to Aria glasses via Wi-Fi or USB.

- Wi-Fi: you will need to specify the option `--device-ip`
    - Pair your Aria glasses with the Mobile Companion app to get their IP address by tapping Wi-Fi in the Dashboard
    - Go to the [Mobile Companion app page](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app/#dashboard) for screenshots and further instructions
- USB: you don't need to manually input the device IP when it is plugged in via USB, the CLI will automatically connect
    - Use the option `--serial`, if more than one device is plugged in via USB

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor update
Summary:
* Add download Aria data details to CLI content
* Update Workplace Group title

Reviewed By: nicholasstrickland

Differential Revision: D57346289

fbshipit-source-id: 46c320b274885e6f5470df68a6e6fc5d7c752df0

website/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/cli.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Aria CLI
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Aria CLI

## Overview
This page provides an overview of Aria CLI features and a few useful commands, go to the [Command Reference page](/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/api_reference) for a full list.

## About the CLI

`Aria CLI` is a simple command line binary available on Linux and Mac which allows users to control their Project Aria glasses via CLI commands.

The CLI currently provides the ability to:
- Pair the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Connect to the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Retrieve the device status and information
- Control Aria recording capabilities
- Control Aria streaming capabilities

The CLI does not enable you to download Aria data. Go to the [Downloads section](/ARK/ARK_quickstart.mdx#download-data) of the [Project Aria Glasses Quickstart Guide](/ARK/ARK_quickstart.mdx) for ways to download Aria data.


:::caution
To be able to use these commands, follow the [setup instructions](/docs/ARK/sdk/setup.mdx) to install the CLI, and pair your glasses.
:::

## Help

```
aria --help
```

will show you available options and subcommands.

## Connecting

You can connect to Aria glasses via Wi-Fi or USB.

- Wi-Fi: you will need to specify the option `--device-ip`
    - Pair your Aria glasses with the Mobile Companion app to get their IP address by tapping Wi-Fi in the Dashboard
    - Go to the [Mobile Companion app page](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app/#dashboard) for screenshots and further instructions
- USB: you don't need to manually input the device IP when it is plugged in via USB, the CLI will automatically connect
    - Use the option `--serial`, if more than one device is plugged in via USB
