README.md, before:

# Project Aria Tools

Project Aria Tools is a suite of C++/Python utilities for researchers to expand the horizons of Augmented Reality, Machine Perception and Artificial Intelligence with [Project Aria](https://projectaria.com/). It is designed to ease interaction with Aria data and its open datasets.

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/releases"><img alt="Latest Release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/LICENSE">
  <img alt="license" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache--2.0-blue.svg"/></a>
  <a href="https://pepy.tech/project/projectaria_tools">
  <img alt="Downloads" src="https://pepy.tech/badge/projectaria_tools"></a>
</div>

## Interactive python notebook playground (Google Colab)

- [![Aria VRS Data Provider](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/core/examples/dataprovider_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria VRS Data Provider
- [![Aria Machine Perception Services](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/core/examples/mps_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria Machine Perception Services
- [![Aria Digital Twin Dataset](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/examples/adt_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria Digital Twin Dataset
- [![Aria Everyday Activities Dataset](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/projects/AriaEverydayActivities/examples/aea_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria Everyday Activities Dataset

## Documentation

- [Documentation](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/intro) |
[![Documentation](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/actions/workflows/publish-website.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/actions/workflows/publish-website.yml)

## Open Datasets

- [Aria Pilot Dataset](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/apd)
- [Aria Digital Twin](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/adt)
- [Aria Synthetic Environments](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/ase)

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions! See [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to get started, and our [code of conduct](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

Project Aria Tools are released by Meta under the [Apache 2.0 license](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/LICENSE).

Commit message:

{Readme} Update Links
Summary: Update to link to Aria Everyday Activities Dataset

Reviewed By: SeaOtocinclus

Differential Revision: D54864339

fbshipit-source-id: 54e49ad5cd92249631825e442ac6db38beb046c9

README.md, after:

# Project Aria Tools

Project Aria Tools is a suite of C++/Python utilities to help researchers expand the horizons of Augmented Reality, Machine Perception and Artificial Intelligence with [Project Aria](https://projectaria.com/). It is designed to make it easier to use Aria data and its open datasets.

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/releases"><img alt="Latest Release" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools.svg" /></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/LICENSE">
  <img alt="license" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache--2.0-blue.svg"/></a>
  <a href="https://pepy.tech/project/projectaria_tools">
  <img alt="Downloads" src="https://pepy.tech/badge/projectaria_tools"></a>
</div>

## Interactive python notebook playground (Google Colab)

- [![Aria VRS Data Provider](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/core/examples/dataprovider_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria VRS Data Provider
- [![Aria Machine Perception Services](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/core/examples/mps_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria Machine Perception Services
- [![Aria Digital Twin Dataset](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/examples/adt_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria Digital Twin Dataset
- [![Aria Everyday Activities Dataset](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/1.4.0/projects/AriaEverydayActivities/examples/aea_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb) Aria Everyday Activities Dataset

## Documentation

- [Documentation](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/intro) |
[![Documentation](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/actions/workflows/publish-website.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/actions/workflows/publish-website.yml)

## Open Datasets

- [Aria Everyday Activities](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/aea/)
- [Aria Digital Twin](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/adt)
- [Aria Synthetic Environments](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/ase)


## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions! Go to [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) and our [CODE OF CONDUCT](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) for how to get started.

## License

Project Aria Tools are released by Meta under the [Apache 2.0 license](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/LICENSE).
