website/docs/ARK/mps/mps_troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5000
title: MPS Troubleshooting
---
## Overview

This page provides troubleshooting support for issues relating to Project Aria's [Machine Perception Services (MPS)](mps.mdx). If you can't find a solution for your problem on this page, go to the [Support page](/support.mdx) for how to contact our team.

This page covers:

* General MPS questions
* MPS CLI specific troubleshooting and error codes
* Desktop app specific troubleshooting and error codes

:::tip
The MPS CLI and the Desktop Companion app do not use the same error codes.
:::

## General MPS questions

### How do I learn more about MPS data?

The [MPS Data Formats section](/data_formats/mps/mps_summary.mdx) of the wiki provides more information about each MPS output and links to visualizers you can use with this data.

### How do I find out which recording profile was used?

Recording profile information is stored in the .vrs.json file that contains metadata about that recording. Open the file with any text editor and search for the `recording_profile` value.


## MPS CLI specific issues
### How do I request support?

When requesting [support](/support.mdx), please include:

* Log file from the CLI
    * File path is shown on the bottom left side of the MPS CLI UI
    * Stored in /tmp/logs/projectaria/mps/ by default
* Supplemental debugging files, if available. These will be stored in output folders:
    * Files that include vrs_health_check, such as:
        * `vrs_health_check.json`
        * `vrs_health_check_slam.json`
    * `summary.json`
* Screenshot showing the error codes

:::important Please don’t send us any raw data
Raw data is generally not necessary, but if it is, User Support will send you instructions for where to upload it.
:::


### **Authentication issue on macOS**

If you encounter a permissions error while trying to sign in to the MPS CLI, try the following command (updated with your Python version):

```
ln -s /etc/ssl/* /Library/Frameworks/Python.framework/Versions/3.9/etc/openssl
```

### **Terminal display issues in macOS**

Some users have reported that the MPS CLI UI has display issues in Terminal. Using a different terminal app may help. [Why doesn't Textual look good on macOS](https://textual.textualize.io/FAQ/#why-doesnt-textual-look-good-on-macos) provides further information about this issue.


### MPS CLI Error codes

### **Error codes**

| **Error Code** | Description |
|--------|-------------------------------------------|
| | *All 1xx codes are local client errors* |
| 100 | Multi-Recording processing error. Another recording in the group had a failure, so the processing was halted. We need the full group of recordings to successfully process and generate multi-slam MPS output. The recording that fails will show its own error code, processing then stops and and sets the other recordings to this error code. |
| 101 | Something failed on your computer. When you see this error, we suggest inspecting the local log for this run. If you need to reach out to support, please include this log file. |
| 102 | There were health check failures during processing. Check the vrs_health_check.json and vrs_health_check_slam.json for more information about what went wrong. |
| 103 | Multi-Recording processing error. Duplicate file detected. Duplicate recordings are not allowed for multi-SLAM processing. |
| 104 | MPS CLI failed to encrypt the file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 105 | Input-output mismatch error. This error happens when you try to run multi-SLAM processing but pass an output directory that already contains output or intermediate artifacts from a different multi-SLAM job. |
| 106 | The output directory used for multi-SLAM processing is not empty. Non-empty output directory is only allowed if the output directory contains output or artifacts from a previous run of the same group of recordings. |
| 108 | The server failed to query the status of the request. Retrying should usually fix this issue. |
| 109 | Error during computing the hash id of the file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 110 | Error when checking existing outputs on the disk. Check error logs for more information. |
| 111 | Error when checking previously submitted MPS requests for a file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 112 | Error when checking if the recording was previously uploaded. Check error logs for more information. |
| 113 | Error uploading the VRS file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 114 | Error submitting MPS request to the server. Check error logs for more information. Retrying should fix the issue. |
| 115 | Error when checking the processing status of the MPS request. Check error logs for more information. |
| 116 | Error when downloading the MPS results. Check error logs for more information. |
| All other error codes | Server side failure. Reach out to support with the error code and log file. |


## Desktop Companion app specific issues

### Requesting support

If you need to contact user support about MPS issues while using the Desktop app we will need, if available:

* Transaction ID of the request
    * View from Recordings > Tools
* `summary.json` file
    * Included in any MPS outputs you download

You may also wish to try requesting services using the MPS CLI, as this will produce more robust logging for us to investigate.

:::important Please don’t send us any raw data
Raw data is generally not necessary, but if it is, User Support will send you instructions for where to upload it.
:::


### **Can’t upload data to MPS/Upload keeps failing**

If you cannot upload your data to MPS, it could be that your VRS file is timing out during upload. Trying a faster internet connection or reducing your VRS file’s size may help. If you are using the Desktop app, you may also wish to try the [MPS CLI](request_mps/mps_cli.mdx), which enables resumable uploads.

* [MPS CLI](request_mps/mps_cli.mdx)
* [How to Reduce VRS File Size](/ARK/troubleshooting/reduce_vrs_file_size.mdx)


### Desktop app error codes

#### Error uploading file, request too small

This error usually occurs when the app is in a bad state. Restarting the app normally resolves this issue.


#### **Unsupported Format**

You may encounter this error message when trying to unzip a downloaded MPS output file, especially large trajectory files. “Unsupported Format” occurs when the zip file has not fully downloaded. Please wait and try again later.


#### **Unsupported MPS Profile**

_This recording profile does not support trajectory generation. \
This recording profile does not support eye gaze generation._

Trajectory and Eye Gaze derived data can only be generated if they have the necessary sensor data. Go to the [Recording Profiles page](/ARK/glasses_manual/profile_guide.mdx) for information about supported profiles.


#### **Recording duration not supported**

_This recording duration is not supported by trajectory generation._

If you encounter this error message, it is because the recording is too long or too short. Recordings need to be longer than 5 seconds and shorter than one hour.


#### **Health checks failed (trajectory)**

The health checks for this recording failed. Check the `summary.json` file for further information.

Commit message:

{Documentation} V160 SW Release
Summary:
SW Release Note
Add Custom Recording Profile details
Clarify Desktop app capabilities and linux support

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D55997688

fbshipit-source-id: ee8e5d6b817b59c6ffbf67942d347679c343ab46

website/docs/ARK/mps/mps_troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5000
title: MPS Troubleshooting
---
## Overview

This page provides troubleshooting support for issues relating to Project Aria's [Machine Perception Services (MPS)](mps.mdx). If you can't find a solution for your problem on this page, go to the [Support page](/support.mdx) for how to contact our team.

This page covers:

* General MPS questions
* MPS CLI specific troubleshooting and error codes
* Desktop app specific troubleshooting and error codes

:::tip
The MPS CLI and the Desktop Companion app do not use the same error codes.
:::

## General MPS questions

### How do I learn more about MPS data?

The [MPS Data Formats section](/data_formats/mps/mps_summary.mdx) of the wiki provides more information about each MPS output and links to visualizers you can use with this data.

### How do I find out which recording profile was used?

Recording profile information is stored in the .vrs.json file that contains metadata about that recording. Open the file with any text editor and search for the `recording_profile` value.


## MPS CLI specific issues
### How do I request support?

When requesting [support](/support.mdx), please include:

* Log file from the CLI
    * File path is shown on the bottom left side of the MPS CLI UI
    * Stored in /tmp/logs/projectaria/mps/ by default
* Supplemental debugging files, if available. These will be stored in output folders:
    * Files that include vrs_health_check, such as:
        * `vrs_health_check.json`
        * `vrs_health_check_slam.json`
    * `summary.json`
* Screenshot showing the error codes

:::important Please don’t send us any raw data
Raw data is generally not necessary, but if it is, User Support will send you instructions for where to upload it.
:::


### **Authentication issue on macOS**

If you encounter a permissions error while trying to sign in to the MPS CLI, try the following command (updated with your Python version):

```
ln -s /etc/ssl/* /Library/Frameworks/Python.framework/Versions/3.9/etc/openssl
```

### **Terminal display issues in macOS**

Some users have reported that the MPS CLI UI has display issues in Terminal. Using a different terminal app may help. [Why doesn't Textual look good on macOS](https://textual.textualize.io/FAQ/#why-doesnt-textual-look-good-on-macos) provides further information about this issue.


### MPS CLI Error codes

### **Error codes**

| **Error Code** | Description |
|--------|-------------------------------------------|
| | *All 1xx codes are local client errors* |
| 100 | Multi-Recording processing error. Another recording in the group had a failure, so the processing was halted. We need the full group of recordings to successfully process and generate multi-slam MPS output. The recording that fails will show its own error code, processing then stops and and sets the other recordings to this error code. |
| 101 | Something failed on your computer. When you see this error, we suggest inspecting the local log for this run. If you need to reach out to support, please include this log file. |
| 102 | There were health check failures during processing. Check the vrs_health_check.json and vrs_health_check_slam.json for more information about what went wrong. |
| 103 | Multi-Recording processing error. Duplicate file detected. Duplicate recordings are not allowed for multi-SLAM processing. |
| 104 | MPS CLI failed to encrypt the file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 105 | Input-output mismatch error. This error happens when you try to run multi-SLAM processing but pass an output directory that already contains output or intermediate artifacts from a different multi-SLAM job. |
| 106 | The output directory used for multi-SLAM processing is not empty. Non-empty output directory is only allowed if the output directory contains output or artifacts from a previous run of the same group of recordings. |
| 108 | The server failed to query the status of the request. Retrying should usually fix this issue. |
| 109 | Error during computing the hash id of the file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 110 | Error when checking existing outputs on the disk. Check error logs for more information. |
| 111 | Error when checking previously submitted MPS requests for a file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 112 | Error when checking if the recording was previously uploaded. Check error logs for more information. |
| 113 | Error uploading the VRS file. Check error logs for more information. |
| 114 | Error submitting MPS request to the server. Check error logs for more information. Retrying should fix the issue. |
| 115 | Error when checking the processing status of the MPS request. Check error logs for more information. |
| 116 | Error when downloading the MPS results. Check error logs for more information. |
| All other error codes | Server side failure. Reach out to support with the error code and log file. |


## Desktop Companion app specific issues

:::note
Linux support for the Desktop app is limited (see [requirements](/ARK/about_ARK.mdx#desktop-companion-app)) and only v36 is available. Please use the [MPS CLI to](/ARK/mps/request_mps/mps_cli.mdx) request Hand Tracking MPS.
:::

### Requesting support

If you need to contact user support about MPS issues while using the Desktop app we will need, if available:

* Transaction ID of the request
    * View from Recordings > Tools
* `summary.json` file
    * Included in any MPS outputs you download

You may also wish to try requesting services using the MPS CLI, as this will produce more robust logging for us to investigate.

:::important Please don’t send us any raw data
Raw data is generally not necessary, but if it is, User Support will send you instructions for where to upload it.
:::


### **Can’t upload data to MPS/Upload keeps failing**

If you cannot upload your data to MPS, it could be that your VRS file is timing out during upload. Trying a faster internet connection or reducing your VRS file’s size may help. If you are using the Desktop app, you may also wish to try the [MPS CLI](request_mps/mps_cli.mdx), which enables resumable uploads.

* [MPS CLI](request_mps/mps_cli.mdx)
* [How to Reduce VRS File Size](/ARK/troubleshooting/reduce_vrs_file_size.mdx)


### Desktop app error codes

#### Error uploading file, request too small

This error usually occurs when the app is in a bad state. Restarting the app normally resolves this issue.


#### **Unsupported Format**

You may encounter this error message when trying to unzip a downloaded MPS output file, especially large trajectory files. “Unsupported Format” occurs when the zip file has not fully downloaded. Please wait and try again later.


#### **Unsupported MPS Profile**

_This recording profile does not support trajectory generation. \
This recording profile does not support eye gaze generation._

Trajectory and Eye Gaze derived data can only be generated if they have the necessary sensor data. Go to the [Recording Profiles page](/ARK/glasses_manual/profile_guide.mdx) for information about supported profiles.


#### **Recording duration not supported**

_This recording duration is not supported by trajectory generation._

If you encounter this error message, it is because the recording is too long or too short. Recordings need to be longer than 5 seconds and shorter than one hour.


#### **Health checks failed (trajectory)**

The health checks for this recording failed. Check the `summary.json` file for further information.
