website/docs/ARK/mps/mps_versioning.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: MPS Service Versions
---
## Overview

The versioning system for MPS services adheres to the following format:
1. **Major Number**: Indicates significant changes that are not backward compatible. This number is incremented when there are major updates or changes in the API that could affect existing functionalities.
2. **Minor Number**: Represents minor updates or improvements that are backward compatible. This number is incremented when additional features or minor improvements are introduced.
3. **Bugfix Number**: Used for small fixes and patches to address issues without affecting the overall functionality. This number is incremented when bugs are fixed.

## Current MPS Services and Versions:

### Eye Gaze Service
Current version: 3.1.0

Description: Project Aria's [MPS Eye Gaze service](/data_formats/mps/mps_eye_gaze.mdx) provides general and personalized eye gaze data. The latest version was released in March 2024 and introduced eye gaze depth estimation.

### SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping) Service
Current version: 1.1.0

Description: Project Aria's [MPS SLAM service](/data_formats/mps/slam/slam.mdx) provides the trajectory in 6DoF, a semi-dense point cloud, and the online sensor calibration. The latest version 1.1.0 was released in September 2024 and introduced RGB camera online calibration along with accuracy and robustness improvements.

### Hand Tracking Service
Current version: 1.0.0

Description: Project Aria's [MPS Hand Tracking service](/data_formats/mps/hand_tracking/hand_tracking.mdx) provides the wrist and palm 3D positions and normal vectors.

### Summary
This versioning system ensures that each MPS service is consistently updated and maintained, providing reliable and efficient performance for Project Aria glasses.

Commit message:

{Feature} Documentation - Update HT output description in the data formats main page
Summary:
Hand tracking now contains
* confidence
* 21 landmarks (incl. wrist and palm)
* 6DoF transfrom from wrist to device
* wrist and palm normals

Reviewed By: hxtang

Differential Revision:
D74602521

Privacy Context Container: L1117747

fbshipit-source-id: df60ccb7fe8e24f502e03a712c1cd7b6a1ecdbf2

website/docs/ARK/mps/mps_versioning.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: MPS Service Versions
---
## Overview

The versioning system for MPS services adheres to the following format:
1. **Major Number**: Indicates significant changes that are not backward compatible. This number is incremented when there are major updates or changes in the API that could affect existing functionalities.
2. **Minor Number**: Represents minor updates or improvements that are backward compatible. This number is incremented when additional features or minor improvements are introduced.
3. **Bugfix Number**: Used for small fixes and patches to address issues without affecting the overall functionality. This number is incremented when bugs are fixed.

## Current MPS Services and Versions:

### Eye Gaze Service
Current version: 3.1.0

Description: Project Aria's [MPS Eye Gaze service](/data_formats/mps/mps_eye_gaze.mdx) provides general and personalized eye gaze data. The latest version was released in March 2024 and introduced eye gaze depth estimation.

### SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping) Service
Current version: 1.1.0

Description: Project Aria's [MPS SLAM service](/data_formats/mps/slam/slam.mdx) provides the trajectory in 6DoF, a semi-dense point cloud, and the online sensor calibration. The latest version 1.1.0 was released in September 2024 and introduced RGB camera online calibration along with accuracy and robustness improvements.

### Hand Tracking Service
Current version: 2.0.0

Description: Project Aria's [MPS Hand Tracking service](/data_formats/mps/hand_tracking/hand_tracking.mdx) provides the 21 landmark positions, a 6DoF transfrom from the hand frame to the device frame, and wrist and palm normal vectors.

### Summary
This versioning system ensures that each MPS service is consistently updated and maintained, providing reliable and efficient performance for Project Aria glasses.
