website/docs-technical-specs/device/calibration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Device Calibration
---

# Aria Gen2 Device Calibration

Each Aria Gen2 device is individually calibrated in the factory to ensure accurate sensor measurements and proper spatial relationships between sensors.

## Overview

Aria Gen2 devices contain multiple sensors with factory calibration data. Depending on the sensor type, calibration may include:

- **Intrinsic calibration**: Corrects for sensor-specific distortions and biases (e.g., camera lens distortion, IMU bias, microphone sensitivity)
- **Extrinsic calibration**: Defines spatial relationships (position and orientation) between sensors in the device coordinate frame (available for cameras, IMUs, and LED rings)

The calibration data is stored in a standardized JSON format and is accessible as Python `DeviceCalibration` objects through [`Client SDK`](/technical-specs/client-sdk/api#register_device_calib_callbackcallback-callable) or from [Project Aria Tools](/research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/calibration).

---

## Sensor Calibration Availability

The following table shows which calibration data is available for each sensor type:

| Sensor Type | Sensor Label(s) | Intrinsics | Extrinsics |
|-------------|----------------|------------|------------|
| **RGB Camera** | `camera-rgb` | ✅ FisheyeRadTanThinPrism | ✅ T_Device_Camera |
| **SLAM Cameras** | `slam-front-left`<br/>`slam-front-right`<br/>`slam-side-left`<br/>`slam-side-right` | ✅ FisheyeRadTanThinPrism | ✅ T_Device_Camera |
| **Eye Tracking Cameras** | `camera-et-left`<br/>`camera-et-right` | ✅ KannalaBrandtK3 | ✅ T_Device_Camera |
| **IMU** | `imu-left`<br/>`imu-right` | ✅ Accelerometer + Gyroscope<br/>(Bias, Rectification) | ✅ T_Device_Imu |
| **Magnetometer** | `mag0` | ✅ Bias + Rectification | ❌ |
| **Barometer** | `baro0` | ✅ Offset + Slope | ❌ |
| **Microphones** | `mic0` - `mic5`, `mic6` (contact mic) | ✅ Sensitivity (dBV @ 1kHz) | ❌ |
| **Speakers** | `LSPK`, `RSPK` | ✅ Sensitivity (dBV) | ❌ |

### Camera Projection Models

- **FisheyeRadTanThinPrism**: Used for RGB and SLAM cameras
  - Parameters: focal length (f), principal point (cx, cy), radial distortion (k0-k5), tangential distortion (p0, p1), thin prism (s0-s2)

- **KannalaBrandtK3**: Used for eye tracking cameras
  - Parameters: focal lengths (fx, fy), principal point (cx, cy), Kannala-Brandt distortion coefficients (kb0-kb3)

### IMU Calibration Components

- **Accelerometer**: Bias offset (m/s²) and 3x3 rectification matrix for scale/cross-axis corrections
- **Gyroscope**: Bias offset (rad/s), rectification matrix, and G-sensitivity matrix

---

## Device Coordinate System

### Origin Specification

By default, the origin is located at the `slam-front-left` camera. All sensor transformations (`T_Device_Sensor`) defines device (i.e. origin) to be `slam-front-left`.

### Coordinate Frame Convention

Aria Gen2 uses a right-handed coordinate system:
- **X-axis**: Points to the right when viewing from behind the glasses
- **Y-axis**: Points downward
- **Z-axis**: Points forward (out from the front of the glasses)

For more details on coordinate frame convention, please visit [Coordinate Convention](/technical-specs/coordinate/3d-coor).

---

## Additional Resources

- [Coordinate Frame Conventions](/technical-specs/coordinate/3d-coor) - 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions for Project Aria Glasses
- [Client SDK API Reference](/technical-specs/client-sdk/api) - Complete API documentation
- [Calibration Tutorial](/research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/calibration) - Working with calibration data
- [Device Profiles](/technical-specs/device/profile) - Sensor configurations and profiles

Commit message:

add camera intrinsics and sensor measurement models
Summary:
add camera intrinsics and sensor measurement model

same as gen1 website

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84959620

fbshipit-source-id: f978708178761cce52120ef14aaa3e9831ea9d8b

website/docs-technical-specs/device/calibration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Device Calibration
---

# Aria Gen2 Device Calibration

Each Aria Gen2 device is individually calibrated in the factory to ensure accurate sensor measurements and proper spatial relationships between sensors.

## Overview

Aria Gen2 devices contain multiple sensors with factory calibration data. Depending on the sensor type, calibration may include:

- **Intrinsic calibration**: Corrects for sensor-specific distortions and biases (e.g., camera lens distortion, IMU bias, microphone sensitivity)
- **Extrinsic calibration**: Defines spatial relationships (position and orientation) between sensors in the device coordinate frame (available for cameras, IMUs, and LED rings)

The calibration data is stored in a standardized JSON format and is accessible as Python `DeviceCalibration` objects through [`Client SDK`](/technical-specs/client-sdk/api#register_device_calib_callbackcallback-callable) or from [Project Aria Tools](/research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/calibration).

---

## Sensor Calibration Availability

The following table shows which calibration data is available for each sensor type:

| Sensor Type | Sensor Label(s) | Intrinsics | Extrinsics |
|-------------|----------------|------------|------------|
| **RGB Camera** | `camera-rgb` | ✅ FisheyeRadTanThinPrism | ✅ T_Device_Camera |
| **SLAM Cameras** | `slam-front-left`<br/>`slam-front-right`<br/>`slam-side-left`<br/>`slam-side-right` | ✅ FisheyeRadTanThinPrism | ✅ T_Device_Camera |
| **Eye Tracking Cameras** | `camera-et-left`<br/>`camera-et-right` | ✅ KannalaBrandtK3 | ✅ T_Device_Camera |
| **IMU** | `imu-left`<br/>`imu-right` | ✅ Accelerometer + Gyroscope<br/>(Bias, Rectification) | ✅ T_Device_Imu |
| **Magnetometer** | `mag0` | ✅ Bias + Rectification | ❌ |
| **Barometer** | `baro0` | ✅ Offset + Slope | ❌ |
| **Microphones** | `mic0` - `mic5`, `mic6` (contact mic) | ✅ Sensitivity (dBV @ 1kHz) | ❌ |
| **Speakers** | `LSPK`, `RSPK` | ✅ Sensitivity (dBV) | ❌ |

### Camera Projection Models
Details of the camera intrinsics model can be found in [calibration insight](/technical-specs/device/calibration_insights/camera_intrinsics_models)

- **FisheyeRadTanThinPrism**: Used for RGB and SLAM cameras
  - Parameters: focal length (f), principal point (cx, cy), radial distortion (k0-k5), tangential distortion (p0, p1), thin prism (s0-s2)

- **KannalaBrandtK3**: Used for eye tracking cameras
  - Parameters: focal lengths (fx, fy), principal point (cx, cy), Kannala-Brandt distortion coefficients (kb0-kb3)

### IMU Calibration Components
Details of the IMU models can be found in [calibration insight](/technical-specs/device/calibration_insights/sensor_measurement_model)

- **Accelerometer**: Bias offset (m/s²) and 3x3 rectification matrix for scale/cross-axis corrections
- **Gyroscope**: Bias offset (rad/s), rectification matrix, and G-sensitivity matrix

---

## Device Coordinate System

### Origin Specification

By default, the origin is located at the `slam-front-left` camera. All sensor transformations (`T_Device_Sensor`) defines device (i.e. origin) to be `slam-front-left`.

### Coordinate Frame Convention

Aria Gen2 uses a right-handed coordinate system:
- **X-axis**: Points to the right when viewing from behind the glasses
- **Y-axis**: Points downward
- **Z-axis**: Points forward (out from the front of the glasses)

For more details on coordinate frame convention, please visit [Coordinate Convention](/technical-specs/coordinate/3d-coor).

---

## Additional Resources

- [Coordinate Frame Conventions](/technical-specs/coordinate/3d-coor) - 3D Coordinate Frame Conventions for Project Aria Glasses
- [Client SDK API Reference](/technical-specs/client-sdk/api) - Complete API documentation
- [Calibration Tutorial](/research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/calibration) - Working with calibration data
- [Device Profiles](/technical-specs/device/profile) - Sensor configurations and profiles
