website/docs/tech_insights/imu_noise_model.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 70
title: IMU Noise Model
---

# IMU Noise Model for Project Aria Data


In our visual-inertial fusion algorithm, we model, as traditionally done, the stochastic part of the IMU error as including three components:
* Turn-on bias
* Bias random walk
* White noise


The noise along any of the axis of the inertial sensor is described as the sum of those contributions:
$$
 x^{\text{sampled}}_k = x^{\text{true}}_k + n^{\text{turn-on bias}}_{k0} + n^{\text{bias random walk}}_k + n^{\text{white noise}}_k
$$
Where $x^{\text{true}}_k$ is the real value of the quantity measured projected on the sensor sensitive axis. $x^{\text{sampled}}_k$ is the sampled value seen as a random variable. $n^{\text{turn-on bias}}_{k0}$ is a random variable draw from a Gaussian when the device is turned-on (denoted here as step $k_0$). $n^{\text{white noise}}_{k}$ is the time-independent noise components and draw from a 0-centered Gaussian at each step $k$. The latter noise is sometime \emph{Angle Random walk in $rad/s/\sqrt{Hz}$} for the gyrometer and the \emph{Velocity Random Walk in $m/s/\sqrt{Hz}$} for the accelerometer. The covariance of the Gaussian is usually characterized by the continuous noise $\sigma_c$ strength (in the same unit), which needs to be multiplied by the sampling period $\Delta t$ to get the distribution of the sample noise: $\sigma^2_c \Delta t$. Finally, $n^{\text{bias random walk}}_k$ is drawn from a random walk process.

The parameter describing those noises is derived from an Allan Variance plot computed from data collected over a period of 24 hours in a temperature stable environment.

**Table 1:** *White noise and bias instability parameters of Aria IMU sensors*

||accel-left | accel-right| gyro-left | gyro-right|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|white noise|$0.9\times 10^-6$|$0.8\times 10^-6$|$5\times 10^-3$|$10^-2$|
|bias instability|$280\times 10^-6$|$350\times 10^-6$|$1.3\times 10^-3$|$0.6^-3$|


The figure below shows the Allan Variance plot supporting this measurement. Note that the data duration used for Allan Variance was not enough to capture the bias random walk confidently. In practice, we tune the parameter of the bias random walk used for sensor-fusion starting from the bias instability measured on the Allan Variance of the sensor (the floor of the curve) and inflating it by a tuning factor. This is because real MEMS sensors are not that well modelled by this stochastic model.

![Allan Variance plot for IMU sensors on Project Aria device](/img/tech_insights/allanVarianceHighRes.png)
**Figure 1:** *Allan Variance plot computed from data collected over 24 hours in a temperature stable environment*

Commit message:

{Documentation} improves documentation of imu noise
Summary:
ETHZ noticed a few typos and inacuracy in that page.

This diffs fixes them:
- Fix unit of the angular random walk
- Fix the computation of discrete sample noise
- Clarify the units in the table
- Add a table with the value of sample noise.

Reviewed By: maurimo

Differential Revision:
D59393632

Privacy Context Container: L1124100

fbshipit-source-id: c09af90fe2c45e5e7147c9ab4ab365ca00cfd94b

website/docs/tech_insights/imu_noise_model.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 70
title: IMU Noise Model
---

# IMU Noise Model for Project Aria Data


In our visual-inertial fusion algorithm, we model, as traditionally done, the stochastic part of the IMU error as including three components:
* Turn-on bias
* Bias random walk
* White noise


The noise along any of the axis of the inertial sensor is described as the sum of those contributions:
$$
 x^{\text{sampled}}_k = x^{\text{true}}_k + n^{\text{turn-on bias}}_{k0} + n^{\text{bias random walk}}_k + n^{\text{white noise}}_k
$$
Where:
- $x^{\text{true}}_k$ is the real value of the quantity measured projected on the sensor sensitive axis.
- $x^{\text{sampled}}_k$ is the sampled value seen as a random variable.
- $n^{\text{turn-on bias}}_{k0}$ is a random variable draw from a Gaussian when the device is turned-on (denoted here as step $k_0$).
- $n^{\text{white noise}}_{k}$ is the time-independent noise components and draw from a 0-centered Gaussian at each step $k$.
   - The covariance of the Gaussian is usually characterized by the continuous noise $\sigma_c$ strength, which needs to be multiplied by the bandwidth (BW)h in Hz to get the distribution of the sample noise: $\sigma^2_c . BW$.
   - $\sigma_c$ is sometimes called *Angle Random walk in $rad/s/\sqrt{Hz}$ or $rad/\sqrt{s}$* for the gyrometer and the *Velocity Random Walk in $m/s^2/\sqrt{Hz}$ or $m/s/\sqrt(s)$* for the accelerometer.
- $n^{\text{bias random walk}}_k$ is drawn from a random walk process.

The parameters describing those noises can be derived from an Allan Variance plot computed from data collected over a period of 24 hours in a temperature stable environment.

**Table 1:** *White noise and bias instability parameters of Aria IMU sensors (1 gee = 9.81m/s^2)*

||accel-left | accel-right| gyro-left | gyro-right|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|white noise ($\sigma_c$)|$0.9\times 10^-4\ \text{gees}/\sqrt{Hz}$ |$0.8\times 10^-4\ \text{gees}/\sqrt{Hz}$|$5\times 10^-3\ \text{dps}/\sqrt{Hz}$|$1\times10^-2\  \text{dps}/\sqrt{Hz}$|
|bias instability |$2.8\times 10^-5\ \text{gees}$|$3.5\times 10^-5\ \text{gees}$|$1\times 10^-3\ \text{dps}$|$1.3\times10^-3\ \text{dps}$|


The figure below shows the Allan Variance plot supporting this measurement.

![Allan Variance plot for IMU sensors on Project Aria device](/img/tech_insights/allanVarianceHighRes.png)
**Figure 1:** *Allan Variance plot computed from data collected over 24 hours in a temperature stable environment*

With our sensor configuration for bandwidth, this leads to the following values for the sample noise:

**Table 2:** *Sample noise of Aria IMU sensors*

||accel-left (BW: 343Hz) | accel-right (BW: 353Hz)| gyro-left (BW:300Hz) | gyro-right (BW:116Hz)|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|$\sigma^{\text{white noise}}_k$|$16\times 10^{-3}\ m/s^2$ |$15\times 10^{-3}\ m/s^2$|$1.5\times10^{-3}\ \text{rad/s}$|$1.8\times10^{-3}\ \text{rad/s}$|

The data duration used for Allan Variance was not enough to capture the bias random walk confidently. This is because real MEMS sensors are not that well modelled by this stochastic model. To address this, we tune the parameter of the bias random walk used for sensor-fusion. We start from the bias instability measured on the Allan Variance of the sensor (the floor of the curve) and inflate it by a tuning factor.
