website/docs/tech_insights/sensor_measurement_model.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: Sensor Measurement Model
---

# Sensor Measurement Models in Project Aria Devices

This page provides an overview of how Project Aria device sensor measurements are modeled for IMU, magnetometer, barometer and audio.

## IMUs

For IMUs, we employ an affine model where the value from the readout of accelerometer $s_a$ or gyroscope $s_g$, is compensated to obtain a "real" acceleration $a$ and angular velocity $\omega$ by
$$
a = M_a^{-1}(s_a - b_a) \qquad
\omega = M_g^{-1}(s_g - b_g)
$$
$M_a$ and $M_g$ are assumed to be upper triangular so that there is no global rotation from the imu body frame to the accelerometer frame.

Inversely, we can simulate the sensor read-out from acceleration or angular velocity by
$$
s_a = M_a a + b_a \qquad
s_g = M_g \omega + b_g
$$

When the read-out signal exceeds a threshold, the signal saturates. Saturation limits are sensor dependent and referenced in the following table for accelerometer and gyrometers.

||accel-left | accel-right| gyro-left | gyro-right|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|saturation|4g|8g|5000|1000|

## Magnetometer, barometer and audio

Similar to the IMU rectification model, the sensor readouts for magnetometer, barometer, and audio data are modeled as linear to the real $r$ (magnetic field, air pressure and sound intensity).

Audio specifically is bias only.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor Calibration Improvements
Summary:
* Link Calibration pages back to the FAQ as a central spot for calibration info
* Add links to Calibration part of the FAQ
* Make extrinsic and intrinsic clearer in the docs

Reviewed By: PiotrBrzyski

Differential Revision: D58839562

fbshipit-source-id: 82615e644af9812a5577c429086a2d6730addcfe

website/docs/tech_insights/sensor_measurement_model.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: Sensor Measurement Model
---

# Sensor Measurement Models in Project Aria Devices

This page provides an overview of how Project Aria device sensor measurements are modeled for IMU, magnetometer, barometer and audio. Go to the [Project Aria FAQ](/faq.mdx#calibration) for more calibration information and resources.

## IMUs

For IMUs, we employ an affine model where the value from the readout of accelerometer $s_a$ or gyroscope $s_g$, is compensated to obtain a "real" acceleration $a$ and angular velocity $\omega$ by
$$
a = M_a^{-1}(s_a - b_a) \qquad
\omega = M_g^{-1}(s_g - b_g)
$$
$M_a$ and $M_g$ are assumed to be upper triangular so that there is no global rotation from the imu body frame to the accelerometer frame.

Inversely, we can simulate the sensor read-out from acceleration or angular velocity by
$$
s_a = M_a a + b_a \qquad
s_g = M_g \omega + b_g
$$

When the read-out signal exceeds a threshold, the signal saturates. Saturation limits are sensor dependent and referenced in the following table for accelerometer and gyrometers.

||accel-left | accel-right| gyro-left | gyro-right|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|saturation|4g|8g|5000|1000|

## Magnetometer, barometer and audio

Similar to the IMU rectification model, the sensor readouts for magnetometer, barometer, and audio data are modeled as linear to the real $r$ (magnetic field, air pressure and sound intensity).

Audio specifically is bias only.
