website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/calibration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Using Device Calibration Data from VRS
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 2: Device calibration

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_2_device_calibration.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

Most sensors in Aria glasses are calibrated both extrinsically and intrinsically, allowing you to rectify sensor measurements to real-world quantities. Calibration is performed per device, and the information is stored in the VRS file. This tutorial demonstrates how to work with device calibration in Project Aria using `projectaria_tools`.

### What You'll Learn

- How to obtain each sensor's calibration data
- Camera calibration: projection and unprojection, and how to post-process images according to calibration (distort).
- IMU calibration: measurement rectification.
- Multi-sensor coordination and sensor poses, and the concept of the "Device" frame.

**Pre-requisite:**
Familiarity with VRS basics from `Tutorial_1_vrs_Data_provider_basics.ipynb`.

### Obtaining Device Calibration Content

Each VRS file's device calibration can be accessed as a `DeviceCalibration` instance via the `VrsDataProvider` API.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)

# Obtain device calibration
device_calib = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration()
if device_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "device calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid device calibration for this tutorial. "
    )

# You can obtain device version (Aria Gen1 vs Gen2), or device subtype (DVT with small/large frame width + short/long temple arms, etc) information from calibration
if device_calib is not None:
    device_version = device_calib.get_device_version()
    device_subtype = device_calib.get_device_subtype()
    print(f"Aria Device Version: {device_version}")
    print(f"Device Subtype: {device_subtype}")
```

### Accessing Individual Sensor Calibration

`DeviceCalibration` provides APIs to query the intrinsics and extrinsics of each calibrated sensor.

#### 1. Camera calibration content

```python
# Get sensor labels within device calibration
all_labels = device_calib.get_all_labels()
print(f"All sensors within device calibration: {all_labels}")
print(f"Cameras: {device_calib.get_camera_labels()}")

# Query a specific camera's calibration
rgb_camera_label = "camera-rgb"
camera_calib = device_calib.get_camera_calib(rgb_camera_label)

if camera_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "camera-rgb calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid RGB camera calibration for this tutorial. "
    )

print(f"-------------- camera calibration for {rgb_camera_label} ----------------")
print(f"Image Size: {camera_calib.get_image_size()}")
print(f"Camera Model Type: {camera_calib.get_model_name()}")
print(
    f"Camera Intrinsics Params: {camera_calib.get_projection_params()}, \n"
    f"where focal is {camera_calib.get_focal_lengths()}, "
    f"and principal point is {camera_calib.get_principal_point()}\n"
)

# Get extrinsics (device to camera transformation)
T_device_camera = camera_calib.get_transform_device_camera()
print(f"Camera Extrinsics T_Device_Camera:\n{T_device_camera.to_matrix()}")
```

#### 2. IMU calibration content

```python
imu_label = "imu-right"
imu_calib = device_calib.get_imu_calib(imu_label)

if imu_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "imu-right calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid IMU calibration for this tutorial. "
    )

print(f"-------------- IMU calibration for {imu_label} ----------------")

# Get IMU intrinsics parameters
accel_bias = imu_calib.get_accel_model().get_bias()
accel_rectification_matrix = imu_calib.get_accel_model().get_rectification()
gyro_bias = imu_calib.get_gyro_model().get_bias()
gyro_rectification_matrix = imu_calib.get_gyro_model().get_rectification()

print(f"Accelerometer Intrinsics:")
print(f"  Bias: {accel_bias}")
print(f"  Rectification Matrix:\n{accel_rectification_matrix}")

print(f"Gyroscope Intrinsics:")
print(f"  Bias: {gyro_bias}")
print(f"  Rectification Matrix:\n{gyro_rectification_matrix}")

# Get extrinsics (device to IMU transformation)
T_device_imu = imu_calib.get_transform_device_imu()
print(f"IMU Extrinsics T_Device_IMU:\n{T_device_imu.to_matrix()}")

print(f"  \n ------IMPORTANT----- \n "
      f"Please use .raw_to_rectified_[accel,gyro]() and .rectified_to_raw_[accel,gyro]() APIs to apply IMU calibration! \n")
```

#### 3. Magnetometer, barometer, and microphone calibration content

```python
print(f"Magnetometers: {device_calib.get_magnetometer_labels()}")
print(f"Barometers: {device_calib.get_barometer_labels()}")
print(f"Microphones: {device_calib.get_microphone_labels()}")

# ----------------
# Magnetometer calibration
# ----------------
magnetometer_label = "mag0"
magnetometer_calib = device_calib.get_magnetometer_calib(magnetometer_label)

if magnetometer_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{magnetometer_label} calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid magnetometer calibration for this tutorial."
    )

# Get magnetometer intrinsics parameters
mag_bias = magnetometer_calib.get_model().get_bias()
mag_rectification_matrix = magnetometer_calib.get_model().get_rectification()

print(f"Magnetometer calibration for {magnetometer_label} only have intrinsics:")
print(f"  Bias: {mag_bias}")
print(f"  Rectification Matrix:\n{mag_rectification_matrix}")

# ----------------
# Barometer calibration
# ----------------
baro_label = "baro0"
baro_calib = device_calib.get_barometer_calib(baro_label)

if baro_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{baro_label} calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid barometer calibration for this tutorial."
    )

print(f"Barometer calibration for {baro_label} only have intrinsics:")
print(f"  Slope: {baro_calib.get_slope()}")
print(f"  Offset in Pascal:\n{baro_calib.get_offset_pa()}")

# ----------------
# Microphone calibration, containing both mic and speaker calibrations.
# ----------------
microphone_labels = device_calib.get_microphone_labels()
speaker_labels = device_calib.get_speaker_labels()
audio_sensor_labels = device_calib.get_audio_labels()
print(f"Both mic and speakers are calibrated. \n"
f"List of mics that are calibrated: {microphone_labels} \n"
f"List of speakers that are calibrated: {speaker_labels}")

for audio_label in audio_sensor_labels:
    audio_calib = device_calib.get_microphone_calib(audio_label)
    if audio_calib is None:
        print(f"Audio sensor calibration for {audio_label} is not available.")
        continue

    print(f"Audio sensor calibration for {audio_label} only has intrinsics:")
    print(f"  sensitivity delta: {audio_calib.get_d_sensitivity_1k_dbv()}")

print(f"  \n ------IMPORTANT----- \n "
    f"Please use .raw_to_rectified() and .rectified_to_raw() APIs to apply magnetometer, barometer, and microphone calibration!\n")
```

### Camera Intrinsics: Project and Unproject

A camera intrinsic model maps between a 3D point in the camera coordinate system and its corresponding 2D pixel on the sensor. This supports:

- **Projection:** 3D point → 2D pixel
- **Unprojection:** 2D pixel → 3D ray

```python
import numpy as np

# Project 3D point to pixel
point_3d = np.array([0.1, 0.05, 1.0])  # Point in camera frame (meters)
pixel = camera_calib.project(point_3d)
if pixel is not None:
    print(f"3D point {point_3d} projected to -> pixel {pixel}")
else:
    print(f"3D point {point_3d} projected out of camera sensor plane")

# Unproject pixel to 3D ray.
test_pixel = np.array([400, 300])
ray_3d = camera_calib.unproject(test_pixel)
print(f"Pixel {test_pixel} unprojected to -> 3D ray {ray_3d}")
```

## Camera Intrinsics: undistortion

Camera calibration enables post-processing of Aria images, such as undistorting images from a fisheye to a linear camera model. Steps:

1. Use `vrs_data_provider` to access the camera image and calibration.
2. Create a linear camera model using `get_linear_camera_calibration` function.
3. Apply `distort_by_calibration` to distort or undistort the image from the actual Fisheye camera model to linear camera model.

```python
import rerun as rr
from projectaria_tools.core import calibration

rr.init("rerun_viz_image_undistortion")
rr.notebook_show()

# We already obtained RGB camera calibration as `camera_calib`.
# Now, create a linear camera model that is similar to camera_calib
linear_camera_model = calibration.get_linear_camera_calibration(
    image_width=camera_calib.get_image_size()[0],
    image_height=camera_calib.get_image_size()[1],
    focal_length=camera_calib.get_focal_lengths()[0],
    label="test_linear_camera",
)

rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
num_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(rgb_stream_id)

# Plot a few frames from RGB camera, and also plot the undistorted images
first_few = min(10, num_samples)
for i in range(first_few):
    # Query RGB images
    image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_index(
        rgb_stream_id, i
    )
    if not image_data.is_valid():
        continue

    # Plot original RGB image
    timestamp_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", timestamp_ns)
    rr.log("camera_rgb", rr.Image(image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # Undistort RGB image to a linear camera model
    undistorted_image = calibration.distort_by_calibration(
        arraySrc=image_data.to_numpy_array(),
        dstCalib=linear_camera_model,
        srcCalib=camera_calib,
    )
    rr.log("undistorted_camera_rgb", rr.Image(undistorted_image))
```

### IMU Intrinsics: Measurement Rectification

IMU intrinsics are represented by an affine model. The raw sensor readout (`value_raw`) is compensated to obtain the real acceleration or angular velocity (`value_compensated`):

```
value_compensated = M^-1 * (value_raw - bias)
```

- `M` is an upper triangular matrix (no global rotation between IMU body and accelerometer frame).

To simulate sensor readout from real values:

```
value_raw = M * value_compensated + bias
```

Note that in the following example, the difference between raw reading and compensated IMU signals are pretty close, therefore the plotting may look similar.

```python
def _set_imu_plot_colors(rerun_plot_label):
    """
    A helper function to set colors for the IMU plots in rerun
    """
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/x[m/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[230, 25, 75], name="accel/x[m/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Red
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/y[m/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[60, 180, 75], name="accel/y[m/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Green
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/z[m/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[0, 130, 200], name="accel/z[m/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Blue
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/x[rad/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[245, 130, 48], name="gyro/x[rad/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Orange
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/y[rad/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[145, 30, 180], name="gyro/y[rad/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Purple
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/z[rad/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[70, 240, 240], name="gyro/z[rad/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Cyan


def _plot_imu_signals(accel_data, gyro_data, rerun_plot_label):
    """
    This is a helper function to plot IMU signals in Rerun 1D plot
    """
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/x[m/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(accel_data[0]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/y[m/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(accel_data[1]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/z[m/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(accel_data[2]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/x[rad/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(gyro_data[0]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/y[rad/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(gyro_data[1]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/z[rad/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(gyro_data[2]),
    )


rr.init("rerun_viz_imu_rectification")
rr.notebook_show()

imu_label = "imu-right"
imu_calib = device_calib.get_imu_calib(imu_label)
imu_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(imu_label)
if imu_calib is None or imu_stream_id is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "imu-right calibration or stream data does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid IMU calibration and data for this tutorial. "
    )

num_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(imu_stream_id)
first_few = min(5000, num_samples)

# Set same colors for both plots
_set_imu_plot_colors("imu_right")
_set_imu_plot_colors("imu_right_compensated")

for i in range(0, first_few, 50):
    # Query IMU data
    imu_data = vrs_data_provider.get_imu_data_by_index(imu_stream_id, i)

    # Plot raw IMU readings
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", imu_data.capture_timestamp_ns)

    # Get compensated imu data
    compensated_accel = imu_calib.raw_to_rectified_accel(imu_data.accel_msec2)
    compensated_gyro = imu_calib.raw_to_rectified_gyro(imu_data.gyro_radsec)

    # print one sample content
    if i == 0:
        print(
            f"IMU compensation: raw accel {imu_data.accel_msec2} , compensated accel {compensated_accel}"
        )
        print(
            f"IMU compensation: raw gyro {imu_data.gyro_radsec} , compensated gyro {compensated_gyro}"
        )

    # Plot raw IMU readings
    _plot_imu_signals(imu_data.accel_msec2, imu_data.gyro_radsec, "imu_right")

    # Plot compensated IMU readings in a separate plot
    _plot_imu_signals(compensated_accel, compensated_gyro, "imu_right_compensated")
```

### 5. Accessing Sensor Extrinsics

The core API to query sensor extrinsics is:
```
get_transform_device_sensor(label = sensor_label, use_cad_calib = False)
```
This API returns the extrinsics of the sensor, represented as a `Sophus::SE3` (translation + rotation).  in the reference coordinate frame of `Device`.
- The `Device` frame is the reference coordinate system for all sensors.
- For Aria-Gen2, the "Device" frame is the left front-facing SLAM camera (`slam-front-left`).
- All sensor extrinsics are defined relative to this frame.

The optional parameter `use_cad_calib` controls the "source" of the sensor extrinsics.
- `use_cad_calib=False` (default): this will return the sensor extrinsics from factory calibration, if the sensor's extrinsics is factory-calibrated. This include:
    - Cameras
    - IMUs
- `use_cad_calib=True`: this will return the sensor's extrinsics in their designed location in CAD.  This is useful for sensors without factory-calibrated extrinsics, including:
    - Magnetometer
    - Barometer
    - Microphones

```python
from projectaria_tools.utils.rerun_helpers import (
    AriaGlassesOutline,
    ToTransform3D,
    ToBox3D,
)

rr.init("rerun_viz_sensor_extrinsics")
rr.notebook_show()

# Obtain a glass outline for visualization. This outline uses factory calibration extrinsics if possible, uses CAD extrinsics if factory calibration is not available.
glass_outline = AriaGlassesOutline(device_calib, use_cad_calib=False)
rr.log("device/glasses_outline", rr.LineStrips3D([glass_outline]), static=True)

# Plot all the sensor locations from either factory calibration (if available) or CAD
sensor_labels = device_calib.get_all_labels()
camera_labels = device_calib.get_camera_labels()
for sensor in sensor_labels:
    # Query for sensor extrinsics from factory calibration if possible. Fall back to CAD values if unavailable.
    if ("camera" in sensor) or ("imu" in sensor):
        T_device_sensor = device_calib.get_transform_device_sensor(label = sensor, get_cad_value = False)
    else:
        T_device_sensor = device_calib.get_transform_device_sensor(label = sensor, get_cad_value = True)

    # Skip if extrinsics cannot be obtained
    if T_device_sensor is None:
        print(f"Warning: sensor {sensor} does not have extrinsics from neither factory calibration nor CAD, skipping the plotting.")
        continue

    # Plot sensor labels
    rr.log(f"device/{sensor}", ToTransform3D(T_device_sensor), static=True)
    rr.log(
        f"device/{sensor}/text",
        ToBox3D(sensor, [1e-5, 1e-5, 1e-5]),
        static=True,
    )

    # For cameras, also plot camera frustrum
    if sensor in camera_labels:
        camera_calibration = device_calib.get_camera_calib(sensor)
        rr.log(f"device/{sensor}_frustum", ToTransform3D(T_device_sensor), static=True)
        rr.log(
            f"device/{sensor}_frustum",
            rr.Pinhole(
                resolution=[
                    camera_calibration.get_image_size()[0],
                    camera_calibration.get_image_size()[1],
                ],
                focal_length=float(camera_calibration.get_focal_lengths()[0]),
            ),
            static=True,
        )
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add sample data links.
Summary:
This diff adds gen2 sample data link to the notebook and tutorials.

It also slightly changed how `notebook_show()` is called, it should be at the end of the cell block.

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84948289

fbshipit-source-id: b0b91de7015a5882e343f30d34c857ffb261d174

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/calibration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Using Device Calibration Data from VRS
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 2: Device calibration

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_2_device_calibration.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

Most sensors in Aria glasses are calibrated both extrinsically and intrinsically, allowing you to rectify sensor measurements to real-world quantities. Calibration is performed per device, and the information is stored in the VRS file. This tutorial demonstrates how to work with device calibration in Project Aria using `projectaria_tools`.

### What You'll Learn

- How to obtain each sensor's calibration data
- Camera calibration: projection and unprojection, and how to post-process images according to calibration (distort).
- IMU calibration: measurement rectification.
- Multi-sensor coordination and sensor poses, and the concept of the "Device" frame.

**Pre-requisite:**
- Familiarity with VRS basics from `Tutorial_1_vrs_Data_provider_basics.ipynb`.
- Download Aria Gen2 sample data from [link](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_1.vrs)

**Note on Visualization**
If visualization window is not showing up, this is due to `Rerun` lib's caching issue. Just rerun the specific code cell.

### Obtaining Device Calibration Content

Each VRS file's device calibration can be accessed as a `DeviceCalibration` instance via the `VrsDataProvider` API.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)

# Obtain device calibration
device_calib = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration()
if device_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "device calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid device calibration for this tutorial. "
    )

# You can obtain device version (Aria Gen1 vs Gen2), or device subtype (DVT with small/large frame width + short/long temple arms, etc) information from calibration
if device_calib is not None:
    device_version = device_calib.get_device_version()
    device_subtype = device_calib.get_device_subtype()
    print(f"Aria Device Version: {device_version}")
    print(f"Device Subtype: {device_subtype}")
```

### Accessing Individual Sensor Calibration

`DeviceCalibration` provides APIs to query the intrinsics and extrinsics of each calibrated sensor.

#### 1. Camera calibration content

```python
# Get sensor labels within device calibration
all_labels = device_calib.get_all_labels()
print(f"All sensors within device calibration: {all_labels}")
print(f"Cameras: {device_calib.get_camera_labels()}")

# Query a specific camera's calibration
rgb_camera_label = "camera-rgb"
camera_calib = device_calib.get_camera_calib(rgb_camera_label)

if camera_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "camera-rgb calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid RGB camera calibration for this tutorial. "
    )

print(f"-------------- camera calibration for {rgb_camera_label} ----------------")
print(f"Image Size: {camera_calib.get_image_size()}")
print(f"Camera Model Type: {camera_calib.get_model_name()}")
print(
    f"Camera Intrinsics Params: {camera_calib.get_projection_params()}, \n"
    f"where focal is {camera_calib.get_focal_lengths()}, "
    f"and principal point is {camera_calib.get_principal_point()}\n"
)

# Get extrinsics (device to camera transformation)
T_device_camera = camera_calib.get_transform_device_camera()
print(f"Camera Extrinsics T_Device_Camera:\n{T_device_camera.to_matrix()}")
```

#### 2. IMU calibration content

```python
imu_label = "imu-right"
imu_calib = device_calib.get_imu_calib(imu_label)

if imu_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "imu-right calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid IMU calibration for this tutorial. "
    )

print(f"-------------- IMU calibration for {imu_label} ----------------")

# Get IMU intrinsics parameters
accel_bias = imu_calib.get_accel_model().get_bias()
accel_rectification_matrix = imu_calib.get_accel_model().get_rectification()
gyro_bias = imu_calib.get_gyro_model().get_bias()
gyro_rectification_matrix = imu_calib.get_gyro_model().get_rectification()

print(f"Accelerometer Intrinsics:")
print(f"  Bias: {accel_bias}")
print(f"  Rectification Matrix:\n{accel_rectification_matrix}")

print(f"Gyroscope Intrinsics:")
print(f"  Bias: {gyro_bias}")
print(f"  Rectification Matrix:\n{gyro_rectification_matrix}")

# Get extrinsics (device to IMU transformation)
T_device_imu = imu_calib.get_transform_device_imu()
print(f"IMU Extrinsics T_Device_IMU:\n{T_device_imu.to_matrix()}")

print(f"  \n ------IMPORTANT----- \n "
      f"Please use .raw_to_rectified_[accel,gyro]() and .rectified_to_raw_[accel,gyro]() APIs to apply IMU calibration! \n")
```

#### 3. Magnetometer, barometer, and microphone calibration content

```python
print(f"Magnetometers: {device_calib.get_magnetometer_labels()}")
print(f"Barometers: {device_calib.get_barometer_labels()}")
print(f"Microphones: {device_calib.get_microphone_labels()}")

# ----------------
# Magnetometer calibration
# ----------------
magnetometer_label = "mag0"
magnetometer_calib = device_calib.get_magnetometer_calib(magnetometer_label)

if magnetometer_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{magnetometer_label} calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid magnetometer calibration for this tutorial."
    )

# Get magnetometer intrinsics parameters
mag_bias = magnetometer_calib.get_model().get_bias()
mag_rectification_matrix = magnetometer_calib.get_model().get_rectification()

print(f"Magnetometer calibration for {magnetometer_label} only have intrinsics:")
print(f"  Bias: {mag_bias}")
print(f"  Rectification Matrix:\n{mag_rectification_matrix}")

# ----------------
# Barometer calibration
# ----------------
baro_label = "baro0"
baro_calib = device_calib.get_barometer_calib(baro_label)

if baro_calib is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{baro_label} calibration does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid barometer calibration for this tutorial."
    )

print(f"Barometer calibration for {baro_label} only have intrinsics:")
print(f"  Slope: {baro_calib.get_slope()}")
print(f"  Offset in Pascal:\n{baro_calib.get_offset_pa()}")

# ----------------
# Microphone calibration, containing both mic and speaker calibrations.
# ----------------
microphone_labels = device_calib.get_microphone_labels()
speaker_labels = device_calib.get_speaker_labels()
audio_sensor_labels = device_calib.get_audio_labels()
print(f"Both mic and speakers are calibrated. \n"
f"List of mics that are calibrated: {microphone_labels} \n"
f"List of speakers that are calibrated: {speaker_labels}")

for audio_label in audio_sensor_labels:
    audio_calib = device_calib.get_microphone_calib(audio_label)
    if audio_calib is None:
        print(f"Audio sensor calibration for {audio_label} is not available.")
        continue

    print(f"Audio sensor calibration for {audio_label} only has intrinsics:")
    print(f"  sensitivity delta: {audio_calib.get_d_sensitivity_1k_dbv()}")

print(f"  \n ------IMPORTANT----- \n "
    f"Please use .raw_to_rectified() and .rectified_to_raw() APIs to apply magnetometer, barometer, and microphone calibration!\n")
```

### Camera Intrinsics: Project and Unproject

A camera intrinsic model maps between a 3D point in the camera coordinate system and its corresponding 2D pixel on the sensor. This supports:

- **Projection:** 3D point → 2D pixel
- **Unprojection:** 2D pixel → 3D ray

```python
import numpy as np

# Project 3D point to pixel
point_3d = np.array([0.1, 0.05, 1.0])  # Point in camera frame (meters)
pixel = camera_calib.project(point_3d)
if pixel is not None:
    print(f"3D point {point_3d} projected to -> pixel {pixel}")
else:
    print(f"3D point {point_3d} projected out of camera sensor plane")

# Unproject pixel to 3D ray.
test_pixel = np.array([400, 300])
ray_3d = camera_calib.unproject(test_pixel)
print(f"Pixel {test_pixel} unprojected to -> 3D ray {ray_3d}")
```

## Camera Intrinsics: undistortion

Camera calibration enables post-processing of Aria images, such as undistorting images from a fisheye to a linear camera model. Steps:

1. Use `vrs_data_provider` to access the camera image and calibration.
2. Create a linear camera model using `get_linear_camera_calibration` function.
3. Apply `distort_by_calibration` to distort or undistort the image from the actual Fisheye camera model to linear camera model.

```python
import rerun as rr
from projectaria_tools.core import calibration

rr.init("rerun_viz_image_undistortion")

# We already obtained RGB camera calibration as `camera_calib`.
# Now, create a linear camera model that is similar to camera_calib
linear_camera_model = calibration.get_linear_camera_calibration(
    image_width=camera_calib.get_image_size()[0],
    image_height=camera_calib.get_image_size()[1],
    focal_length=camera_calib.get_focal_lengths()[0],
    label="test_linear_camera",
)

rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
num_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(rgb_stream_id)

# Plot a few frames from RGB camera, and also plot the undistorted images
first_few = min(10, num_samples)
for i in range(first_few):
    # Query RGB images
    image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_index(
        rgb_stream_id, i
    )
    if not image_data.is_valid():
        continue

    # Plot original RGB image
    timestamp_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", timestamp_ns)
    rr.log("camera_rgb", rr.Image(image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # Undistort RGB image to a linear camera model
    undistorted_image = calibration.distort_by_calibration(
        arraySrc=image_data.to_numpy_array(),
        dstCalib=linear_camera_model,
        srcCalib=camera_calib,
    )
    rr.log("undistorted_camera_rgb", rr.Image(undistorted_image))

rr.notebook_show()
```

### IMU Intrinsics: Measurement Rectification

IMU intrinsics are represented by an affine model. The raw sensor readout (`value_raw`) is compensated to obtain the real acceleration or angular velocity (`value_compensated`):

```
value_compensated = M^-1 * (value_raw - bias)
```

- `M` is an upper triangular matrix (no global rotation between IMU body and accelerometer frame).

To simulate sensor readout from real values:

```
value_raw = M * value_compensated + bias
```

Note that in the following example, the difference between raw reading and compensated IMU signals are pretty close, therefore the plotting may look similar.

```python
def _set_imu_plot_colors(rerun_plot_label):
    """
    A helper function to set colors for the IMU plots in rerun
    """
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/x[m/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[230, 25, 75], name="accel/x[m/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Red
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/y[m/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[60, 180, 75], name="accel/y[m/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Green
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/z[m/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[0, 130, 200], name="accel/z[m/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Blue
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/x[rad/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[245, 130, 48], name="gyro/x[rad/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Orange
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/y[rad/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[145, 30, 180], name="gyro/y[rad/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Purple
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/z[rad/sec2]",
        rr.SeriesLine(color=[70, 240, 240], name="gyro/z[rad/sec2]"),
        static=True,
    )  # Cyan


def _plot_imu_signals(accel_data, gyro_data, rerun_plot_label):
    """
    This is a helper function to plot IMU signals in Rerun 1D plot
    """
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/x[m/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(accel_data[0]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/y[m/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(accel_data[1]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/accl/z[m/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(accel_data[2]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/x[rad/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(gyro_data[0]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/y[rad/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(gyro_data[1]),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"{rerun_plot_label}/gyro/z[rad/sec2]",
        rr.Scalar(gyro_data[2]),
    )


rr.init("rerun_viz_imu_rectification")

imu_label = "imu-right"
imu_calib = device_calib.get_imu_calib(imu_label)
imu_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(imu_label)
if imu_calib is None or imu_stream_id is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        "imu-right calibration or stream data does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid IMU calibration and data for this tutorial. "
    )

num_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(imu_stream_id)
first_few = min(5000, num_samples)

# Set same colors for both plots
_set_imu_plot_colors("imu_right")
_set_imu_plot_colors("imu_right_compensated")

for i in range(0, first_few, 50):
    # Query IMU data
    imu_data = vrs_data_provider.get_imu_data_by_index(imu_stream_id, i)

    # Plot raw IMU readings
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", imu_data.capture_timestamp_ns)

    # Get compensated imu data
    compensated_accel = imu_calib.raw_to_rectified_accel(imu_data.accel_msec2)
    compensated_gyro = imu_calib.raw_to_rectified_gyro(imu_data.gyro_radsec)

    # print one sample content
    if i == 0:
        print(
            f"IMU compensation: raw accel {imu_data.accel_msec2} , compensated accel {compensated_accel}"
        )
        print(
            f"IMU compensation: raw gyro {imu_data.gyro_radsec} , compensated gyro {compensated_gyro}"
        )

    # Plot raw IMU readings
    _plot_imu_signals(imu_data.accel_msec2, imu_data.gyro_radsec, "imu_right")

    # Plot compensated IMU readings in a separate plot
    _plot_imu_signals(compensated_accel, compensated_gyro, "imu_right_compensated")

rr.notebook_show()
```

### 5. Accessing Sensor Extrinsics

The core API to query sensor extrinsics is:
```
get_transform_device_sensor(label = sensor_label, use_cad_calib = False)
```
This API returns the extrinsics of the sensor, represented as a `Sophus::SE3` (translation + rotation).  in the reference coordinate frame of `Device`.
- The `Device` frame is the reference coordinate system for all sensors.
- For Aria-Gen2, the "Device" frame is the left front-facing SLAM camera (`slam-front-left`).
- All sensor extrinsics are defined relative to this frame.

The optional parameter `use_cad_calib` controls the "source" of the sensor extrinsics.
- `use_cad_calib=False` (default): this will return the sensor extrinsics from factory calibration, if the sensor's extrinsics is factory-calibrated. This include:
    - Cameras
    - IMUs
- `use_cad_calib=True`: this will return the sensor's extrinsics in their designed location in CAD.  This is useful for sensors without factory-calibrated extrinsics, including:
    - Magnetometer
    - Barometer
    - Microphones

```python
from projectaria_tools.utils.rerun_helpers import (
    AriaGlassesOutline,
    ToTransform3D,
    ToBox3D,
)

rr.init("rerun_viz_sensor_extrinsics")

# Obtain a glass outline for visualization. This outline uses factory calibration extrinsics if possible, uses CAD extrinsics if factory calibration is not available.
glass_outline = AriaGlassesOutline(device_calib, use_cad_calib=False)
rr.log("device/glasses_outline", rr.LineStrips3D([glass_outline]), static=True)

# Plot all the sensor locations from either factory calibration (if available) or CAD
sensor_labels = device_calib.get_all_labels()
camera_labels = device_calib.get_camera_labels()
for sensor in sensor_labels:
    # Query for sensor extrinsics from factory calibration if possible. Fall back to CAD values if unavailable.
    if ("camera" in sensor) or ("imu" in sensor):
        T_device_sensor = device_calib.get_transform_device_sensor(label = sensor, get_cad_value = False)
    else:
        T_device_sensor = device_calib.get_transform_device_sensor(label = sensor, get_cad_value = True)

    # Skip if extrinsics cannot be obtained
    if T_device_sensor is None:
        print(f"Warning: sensor {sensor} does not have extrinsics from neither factory calibration nor CAD, skipping the plotting.")
        continue

    # Plot sensor labels
    rr.log(f"device/{sensor}", ToTransform3D(T_device_sensor), static=True)
    rr.log(
        f"device/{sensor}/text",
        ToBox3D(sensor, [1e-5, 1e-5, 1e-5]),
        static=True,
    )

    # For cameras, also plot camera frustrum
    if sensor in camera_labels:
        camera_calibration = device_calib.get_camera_calib(sensor)
        rr.log(f"device/{sensor}_frustum", ToTransform3D(T_device_sensor), static=True)
        rr.log(
            f"device/{sensor}_frustum",
            rr.Pinhole(
                resolution=[
                    camera_calibration.get_image_size()[0],
                    camera_calibration.get_image_size()[1],
                ],
                focal_length=float(camera_calibration.get_focal_lengths()[0]),
            ),
            static=True,
        )
rr.notebook_show()
```
