website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/dataprovider.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: VrsDataProvider Basics
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 1: VrsDataProvider Basics

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_1_vrs_data_provider_basics.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

[Aria Gen2](https://www.projectaria.com/) glasses are Meta's dedicated research tool in an always-on glasses form factor. The data recorded by Aria Gen2 glasses are stored in VRS files, where each VRS file captures time-synchronized data streams from various sensors, such cameras, IMUs, audio, and more.
The **VrsDataProvider** interface provides a unified way to access multimodal sensor data from these VRS files.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to create a `VrsDataProvider` from a VRS file.
- Discover available sensor data streams, and check their configurations
- Retrieve data using either sequential (index-based) or temporal (timestamp-based) access APIs.
- Learn about timing domains and time query options

**Prerequisites:** Basic Python knowledge and a general understanding of multimodal sensor data.

## Basic File Loading

The `create_vrs_data_provider($FILE_PATH)` factory function will create **a `vrs_data_provider` object**. This object is **your entry point** for accessing VRS data.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## Stream Discovery and Navigation

### Understanding Stream IDs

A VRS file contains multiple **streams**, each storing data from a specific sensor or on-device algorithm result.

Each VRS stream is identified by a unique **`StreamId`** (e.g. `1201-1`), consisting `RecordableTypeId` (sensor type, e.g. `1201`, standing for "SLAM camera"), and an `instance_id` (for multiple sensors of the same type, e.g. `-1`, standing for "instance #1 of this sensor type"). Below are some common `RecordableTypeId` in Aria recordings. Full definitions of all Recordable Types are given in this wiki page (TODO: Add website page), or refer to [the `StreamId.h` file in the VRS repo](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vrs/blob/main/vrs/StreamId.h#L49).

| RecordableTypeId | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| 214 | RGB camera stream |
| 1201 | SLAM camera stream |
| 211 | EyeTracking camera stream |
| 1202 | IMU sensor stream |
| 231 | Audio sensor stream |
| 373 | EyeGaze data stream from on-device EyeTracking algorithm. |

### Query StreamId By Label

```python
# Get all available streams
all_streams = vrs_data_provider.get_all_streams()
print(f"Found {len(all_streams)} streams in the VRS file:")

# Print out each stream id, and their corresponding sensor label
for stream_id in all_streams:
    label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)
    print(f" --- Data stream {stream_id}'s label is: {label}")
```

```python
# Find a specific stream's StreamId by sensor label
print("Seeking RGB data stream...")
rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
if rgb_stream_id is not None:
    print(f"Found camera-rgb stream in VRS file: {rgb_stream_id}")
else:
    print("Cannot find camera-rgb stream in VRS file.")
```

## Sensor Data Query APIs

1. ### Query by index

The query-by-index API allows you to retrieve the k-th data sample from a specific stream using the following syntax:
```python
get_<SENSOR>_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
```
where `<SENSOR>` can be replaced by any sensor data type available in Aria VRS. See here for [a full list of supported sensor types](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h#L377)

This API is commonly used for sequential processing—such as iterating through all frames of a single stream—or when you know the exact frame number you want to query within a specific stream.

**Important Note:**
The indices in each stream are independent and not correlated across different sensor streams. For example, the i-th RGB image does not necessarily correspond to the i-th SLAM image. This is because different sensors may operate at different frequencies or have missing frames, so their data streams are not synchronized by index.

```python
# Visualize with Rerun
import rerun as rr
rr.init("rerun_viz_query_by_index")
rr.notebook_show()

# Get number of samples in stream
num_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(rgb_stream_id)
print(f"RGB stream has a total of {num_samples} frames\n")

# Access frames sequentially, and plot the first few frames
first_few = min(10, num_samples)
print(f"Printing the capture timestamps from the first {first_few} frames")
for i in range(first_few):  # First 10 frames
    image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_index(
        rgb_stream_id, i
    )

    # Access image properties
    timestamp_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    print(f"Frame {i}: timestamp = {timestamp_ns}")

    # Process image data
    if image_data.is_valid():
        rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", timestamp_ns)
        rr.log("camera_rgb", rr.Image(image_data.to_numpy_array()))

```

2. ### Query by Timestamp: TimeDomain and TimeQueryOptions
A key feature of Aria devices is the ability to capture time-synchronized, multi-modal sensor data. To help you access this data with precise temporal control, `projectaria_tools` provides a comprehensive suite of time-based APIs.

The most commonly used is the **timestamp-based query**:

```python
get_<SENSOR>_by_time_ns(stream_id, time_ns, time_domain=None, time_query_options=None)
```
where `<SENSOR>` can be replaced by any sensor data type available in Aria VRS. See here for [a full list of supported sensor types](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h#L377)

This API is often used to synchronize data across multiple sensor streams, fetch sensor data at specific timestamps, or perform temporal analysis.

#### TimeDomain and TimeQueryOptions

When querying sensor data by timestamp, two important concepts are:

- **TimeDomain**: Specifies the time reference for your query.
- **TimeQueryOptions**: Controls how the API selects data relative to your requested timestamp.

Below are all available options for each:

#### TimeDomain Options

| Name        | Description                                                                                      | Typical Use Case                       |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| RECORD_TIME  | Timestamp stored directly in the VRS index. Fast access, but time domain may vary.               | Quick access, not recommended for sync. |
| DEVICE_TIME  | Accurate device capture time. All sensors on the same Aria device share this domain.             | **Recommended for single-device data.** |
| HOST_TIME    | Arrival time in the host computer's domain. May not be accurate.                                 | Debugging, host-side analysis.          |
| TIME_CODE    | [Aria-Gen1 only] TimeSync server's domain using external time-code devices, accurate across devices in multi-device capture.                       | Multi-device synchronization.           |
| TIC_SYNC     | [Aria-Gen1 only] TimeSync server's domain using tic-sync, accurate for multi-device capture.      | Multi-device synchronization.           |
| SubGhz      | [Aria-Gen2 only] TimeSync server's domain using SubGhz signals, accurate for multi-device capture.           | Multi-device synchronization.           |
| Utc         | UTC time domain, only seconds-level accuracy.                                                    | Coarse, global time reference.          |

#### TimeQueryOptions

| Name    | Description                                                                                                 |
|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Before  | Returns the last valid data with `timestamp <= t_query`.                                                    |
| After   | Returns the first valid data with `timestamp >= t_query`.                                                   |
| Closest | Returns the data sample closest to `t_query`. If two are equally close, returns the one **before** the query.   |

> For detailed usage and best practices—especially for time-sync across multiple devices—see **Tutorial_6**.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions

rr.init("rerun_viz_query_by_timestamp")
rr.notebook_show()

# Get time bounds for RGB images
first_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
last_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_last_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)

# Query specific timestamp
target_time_ns = first_timestamp_ns + int(1e9) # 1 second later
image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    rgb_stream_id,
    target_time_ns,
    TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST
)

actual_time_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
print(f"Requested RGB data that is closest to: {target_time_ns} ns, Got closest sample at: {actual_time_ns} ns")

# Plot RGB and SLAM images at approx 1 hz
camera_label_list = ["camera-rgb", "slam-front-left", "slam-front-right", "slam-side-left", "slam-side-right"]
camera_stream_ids = [vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(camera_label) for camera_label in camera_label_list]

query_timestamp_ns = first_timestamp_ns
for _ in range(10):
    for label, stream_id in zip(camera_label_list, camera_stream_ids):
        # Query each camera's data according to query timestamp
        image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
            stream_id,
            query_timestamp_ns,
            TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
            TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)
        # note that the actual timestamp of the image data is stored within image_record. It can be different from query_time.
        capture_time_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns

        # Plot to Rerun
        if image_data.is_valid():
            rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", capture_time_ns)
            rr.log(label, rr.Image(image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    query_timestamp_ns = query_timestamp_ns + int(1e9) # 1 second

```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add sample data links.
Summary:
This diff adds gen2 sample data link to the notebook and tutorials.

It also slightly changed how `notebook_show()` is called, it should be at the end of the cell block.

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84948289

fbshipit-source-id: b0b91de7015a5882e343f30d34c857ffb261d174

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/dataprovider.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: VrsDataProvider Basics
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 1: VrsDataProvider Basics

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_1_vrs_data_provider_basics.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

[Aria Gen2](https://www.projectaria.com/) glasses are Meta's dedicated research tool in an always-on glasses form factor. The data recorded by Aria Gen2 glasses are stored in VRS files, where each VRS file captures time-synchronized data streams from various sensors, such cameras, IMUs, audio, and more.
The **VrsDataProvider** interface provides a unified way to access multimodal sensor data from these VRS files.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to create a `VrsDataProvider` from a VRS file.
- Discover available sensor data streams, and check their configurations
- Retrieve data using either sequential (index-based) or temporal (timestamp-based) access APIs.
- Learn about timing domains and time query options

**Prerequisites:**
- Basic Python knowledge and a general understanding of multimodal sensor data.
- Download Aria Gen2 sample data from [link](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_1.vrs)

**Note on Visualization**
If visualization window is not showing up, this is due to `Rerun` lib's caching issue. Just rerun the specific code cell.

## Basic File Loading

The `create_vrs_data_provider($FILE_PATH)` factory function will create **a `vrs_data_provider` object**. This object is **your entry point** for accessing VRS data.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## Stream Discovery and Navigation

### Understanding Stream IDs

A VRS file contains multiple **streams**, each storing data from a specific sensor or on-device algorithm result.

Each VRS stream is identified by a unique **`StreamId`** (e.g. `1201-1`), consisting `RecordableTypeId` (sensor type, e.g. `1201`, standing for "SLAM camera"), and an `instance_id` (for multiple sensors of the same type, e.g. `-1`, standing for "instance #1 of this sensor type"). Below are some common `RecordableTypeId` in Aria recordings. Full definitions of all Recordable Types are given in this wiki page (TODO: Add website page), or refer to [the `StreamId.h` file in the VRS repo](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vrs/blob/main/vrs/StreamId.h#L49).

| RecordableTypeId | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| 214 | RGB camera stream |
| 1201 | SLAM camera stream |
| 211 | EyeTracking camera stream |
| 1202 | IMU sensor stream |
| 231 | Audio sensor stream |
| 373 | EyeGaze data stream from on-device EyeTracking algorithm. |

### Query StreamId By Label

```python
# Get all available streams
all_streams = vrs_data_provider.get_all_streams()
print(f"Found {len(all_streams)} streams in the VRS file:")

# Print out each stream id, and their corresponding sensor label
for stream_id in all_streams:
    label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)
    print(f" --- Data stream {stream_id}'s label is: {label}")
```

```python
# Find a specific stream's StreamId by sensor label
print("Seeking RGB data stream...")
rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
if rgb_stream_id is not None:
    print(f"Found camera-rgb stream in VRS file: {rgb_stream_id}")
else:
    print("Cannot find camera-rgb stream in VRS file.")
```

## Sensor Data Query APIs

1. ### Query by index

The query-by-index API allows you to retrieve the k-th data sample from a specific stream using the following syntax:
```python
get_<SENSOR>_data_by_index(stream_id, index)
```
where `<SENSOR>` can be replaced by any sensor data type available in Aria VRS. See here for [a full list of supported sensor types](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h#L377)

This API is commonly used for sequential processing—such as iterating through all frames of a single stream—or when you know the exact frame number you want to query within a specific stream.

**Important Note:**
The indices in each stream are independent and not correlated across different sensor streams. For example, the i-th RGB image does not necessarily correspond to the i-th SLAM image. This is because different sensors may operate at different frequencies or have missing frames, so their data streams are not synchronized by index.

```python
# Visualize with Rerun
import rerun as rr
rr.init("rerun_viz_query_by_index")

# Get number of samples in stream
num_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(rgb_stream_id)
print(f"RGB stream has a total of {num_samples} frames\n")

# Access frames sequentially, and plot the first few frames
first_few = min(10, num_samples)
print(f"Printing the capture timestamps from the first {first_few} frames")
for i in range(first_few):  # First 10 frames
    image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_index(
        rgb_stream_id, i
    )

    # Access image properties
    timestamp_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    print(f"Frame {i}: timestamp = {timestamp_ns}")

    # Process image data
    if image_data.is_valid():
        rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", timestamp_ns)
        rr.log("camera_rgb", rr.Image(image_data.to_numpy_array()))

rr.notebook_show()
```

2. ### Query by Timestamp: TimeDomain and TimeQueryOptions
A key feature of Aria devices is the ability to capture time-synchronized, multi-modal sensor data. To help you access this data with precise temporal control, `projectaria_tools` provides a comprehensive suite of time-based APIs.

The most commonly used is the **timestamp-based query**:

```python
get_<SENSOR>_by_time_ns(stream_id, time_ns, time_domain=None, time_query_options=None)
```
where `<SENSOR>` can be replaced by any sensor data type available in Aria VRS. See here for [a full list of supported sensor types](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h#L377)

This API is often used to synchronize data across multiple sensor streams, fetch sensor data at specific timestamps, or perform temporal analysis.

#### TimeDomain and TimeQueryOptions

When querying sensor data by timestamp, two important concepts are:

- **TimeDomain**: Specifies the time reference for your query.
- **TimeQueryOptions**: Controls how the API selects data relative to your requested timestamp.

Below are all available options for each:

#### TimeDomain Options

| Name        | Description                                                                                      | Typical Use Case                       |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| RECORD_TIME  | Timestamp stored directly in the VRS index. Fast access, but time domain may vary.               | Quick access, not recommended for sync. |
| DEVICE_TIME  | Accurate device capture time. All sensors on the same Aria device share this domain.             | **Recommended for single-device data.** |
| HOST_TIME    | Arrival time in the host computer's domain. May not be accurate.                                 | Debugging, host-side analysis.          |
| TIME_CODE    | [Aria-Gen1 only] TimeSync server's domain using external time-code devices, accurate across devices in multi-device capture.                       | Multi-device synchronization.           |
| TIC_SYNC     | [Aria-Gen1 only] TimeSync server's domain using tic-sync, accurate for multi-device capture.      | Multi-device synchronization.           |
| SubGhz      | [Aria-Gen2 only] TimeSync server's domain using SubGhz signals, accurate for multi-device capture.           | Multi-device synchronization.           |
| Utc         | UTC time domain, only seconds-level accuracy.                                                    | Coarse, global time reference.          |

#### TimeQueryOptions

| Name    | Description                                                                                                 |
|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Before  | Returns the last valid data with `timestamp <= t_query`.                                                    |
| After   | Returns the first valid data with `timestamp >= t_query`.                                                   |
| Closest | Returns the data sample closest to `t_query`. If two are equally close, returns the one **before** the query.   |

> For detailed usage and best practices—especially for time-sync across multiple devices—see **Tutorial_6**.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions

rr.init("rerun_viz_query_by_timestamp")

# Get time bounds for RGB images
first_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
last_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_last_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)

# Query specific timestamp
target_time_ns = first_timestamp_ns + int(1e9) # 1 second later
image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    rgb_stream_id,
    target_time_ns,
    TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST
)

actual_time_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
print(f"Requested RGB data that is closest to: {target_time_ns} ns, Got closest sample at: {actual_time_ns} ns")

# Plot RGB and SLAM images at approx 1 hz
camera_label_list = ["camera-rgb", "slam-front-left", "slam-front-right", "slam-side-left", "slam-side-right"]
camera_stream_ids = [vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(camera_label) for camera_label in camera_label_list]

query_timestamp_ns = first_timestamp_ns
for _ in range(10):
    for label, stream_id in zip(camera_label_list, camera_stream_ids):
        # Query each camera's data according to query timestamp
        image_data, image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
            stream_id,
            query_timestamp_ns,
            TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
            TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)
        # note that the actual timestamp of the image data is stored within image_record. It can be different from query_time.
        capture_time_ns = image_record.capture_timestamp_ns

        # Plot to Rerun
        if image_data.is_valid():
            rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", capture_time_ns)
            rr.log(label, rr.Image(image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    query_timestamp_ns = query_timestamp_ns + int(1e9) # 1 second

rr.notebook_show()
```
