website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/mps.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Loading and Visualizing MPS Output Data
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 7: Loading and Visualizing MPS Output Data

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_7_mps_data_provider_basics.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

This tutorial demonstrates how to access and visualize **Machine Perception Services (MPS)** results. MPS provides cloud-based processing of Aria data to generate high-quality 3D reconstruction, SLAM trajectories, and other perception outputs.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to load and access MPS SLAM trajectory data (open loop and closed loop)
- How to load and visualize MPS semi-dense point clouds and observations
- How to create 3D visualizations of MPS SLAM results

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Access to MPS processed data (SLAM outputs)

```python
import os
from projectaria_tools.core import mps

# Set up paths to your MPS data
mps_folder_path = "path/to/your/mps/folder/"
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"

# Load VRS data provider for additional context
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## MPS SLAM Trajectories

### Understanding Open Loop vs Closed Loop Trajectories

MPS SLAM algorithm outputs 2 trajectory files (see [wiki page](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_trajectory) for data type definitions):

- **Open loop trajectory**: High-frequency (1kHz) odometry from visual-inertial odometry (VIO), accurate over short periods but drifts over time and distance.
- **Closed loop trajectory**: High-frequency (1kHz) pose from mapping with loop closure corrections, reducing drift but possibly less accurate locally over short spans.

### Loading Closed Loop Trajectory

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.mps.utils import (
    filter_points_from_confidence,
    get_nearest_pose,
)

print("=== MPS - Closed loop trajectory ===")

# Load MPS closed-loop trajectory data
closed_loop_trajectory_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "closed_loop_trajectory.csv"
)
closed_loop_trajectory = mps.read_closed_loop_trajectory(closed_loop_trajectory_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in closed_loop_trajectory
if closed_loop_trajectory:
    sample = closed_loop_trajectory[0]
    print("ClosedLoopTrajectoryPose sample:")
    print(f"  tracking_timestamp: {int(sample.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  utc_timestamp: {int(sample.utc_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  transform_world_device:\n{sample.transform_world_device}")
    print(f"  device_linear_velocity_device: {sample.device_linear_velocity_device}")
    print(f"  angular_velocity_device: {sample.angular_velocity_device}")
    print(f"  quality_score: {sample.quality_score}")
    print(f"  gravity_world: {sample.gravity_world}")
    print(f"  graph_uid: {sample.graph_uid}")
else:
    print("closed_loop_trajectory is empty.")
```

### Loading Open Loop Trajectory

```python
print("=== MPS - Open loop trajectory ===")

# Load MPS open-loop trajectory data
open_loop_trajectory_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "open_loop_trajectory.csv"
)
open_loop_trajectory = mps.read_open_loop_trajectory(open_loop_trajectory_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in open_loop_trajectory
if open_loop_trajectory:
    sample = open_loop_trajectory[0]
    print("OpenLoopTrajectoryPose sample:")
    print(f"  tracking_timestamp: {int(sample.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  utc_timestamp: {int(sample.utc_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  transform_odometry_device:\n{sample.transform_odometry_device}")
    print(f"  device_linear_velocity_odometry: {sample.device_linear_velocity_odometry}")
    print(f"  angular_velocity_device: {sample.angular_velocity_device}")
    print(f"  quality_score: {sample.quality_score}")
    print(f"  gravity_odometry: {sample.gravity_odometry}")
    print(f"  session_uid: {sample.session_uid}")
else:
    print("open_loop_trajectory is empty.")
```

## MPS Semi-dense Point Cloud and Observations

### Understanding Point Cloud Data

MPS SLAM algorithm outputs 2 files related to semi-dense point cloud (see [wiki page](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_pointcloud) for data type definitions):

- `semidense_points.csv.gz`: Global points in the world coordinate frame.
- `semidense_observations.csv.gz`: Point observations for each camera, at each timestamp.

Note that semidense point files are normally large, therefore loading them may take some time.

### Loading Semi-dense Point Cloud

```python
print("=== MPS - Semi-dense Point Cloud ===")

# Load MPS semi-dense point cloud data
semidense_points_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "semidense_points.csv.gz"
)
semidense_points = mps.read_global_point_cloud(semidense_points_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in semidense_points
if semidense_points:
    sample = semidense_points[0]
    print("GlobalPointPosition sample:")
    print(f"  uid: {sample.uid}")
    print(f"  graph_uid: {sample.graph_uid}")
    print(f"  position_world: {sample.position_world}")
    print(f"  inverse_distance_std: {sample.inverse_distance_std}")
    print(f"  distance_std: {sample.distance_std}")
    print(f"Total number of semi-dense points: {len(semidense_points)}")
else:
    print("semidense_points is empty.")

# Filter semidense points by inv_dep or depth.
# The filter will KEEP points with (inv_dep or depth < threshold)
filtered_semidense_points = filter_points_from_confidence(raw_points = semidense_points, threshold_invdep = 1e-3, threshold_dep = 5e-2)
print(f"Filtering semidense points from a total of {len(semidense_points)} points down to {len(filtered_semidense_points)}")
```

### Loading Point Observations

```python
print("=== MPS - Semi-dense Point Observations ===")

# Load MPS semi-dense point observations data
semidense_observations_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "semidense_observations.csv.gz"
)
semidense_observations = mps.read_point_observations(semidense_observations_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in semidense_observations
if semidense_observations:
    sample = semidense_observations[0]
    print("PointObservation sample:")
    print(f"  point_uid: {sample.point_uid}")
    print(f"  frame_capture_timestamp: {int(sample.frame_capture_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  camera_serial: {sample.camera_serial}")
    print(f"  uv: {sample.uv}")
    print(f"Total number of point observations: {len(semidense_observations)}")
else:
    print("semidense_observations is empty.")
```

## Visualizing MPS SLAM Results

In the following code snippet, we demonstrate how to visualize the MPS SLAM results in a 3D view.

We first prepare a short trajectory segment, then extract the semidense points position, along with timestamp-mapped observations for visualization purpose. Finally we plot everything in Rerun.

### Color Mapping Helper Function

```python
from collections import defaultdict
import numpy as np

# A helper coloring function
def color_from_zdepth(z_depth_m: float) -> np.ndarray:
    """
    Map z-depth (meters, along the camera's forward axis) to a bright Viridis-like RGB color.
    - If z_depth_m <= 0 (point is behind the camera), return black [0, 0, 0].
    - Near (0.2 m) -> yellow, Far (5.0 m) -> purple.
    Returns an array of shape (3,) with dtype=uint8.
    """
    if not np.isfinite(z_depth_m) or z_depth_m <= 0.0:
        return np.array([0, 0, 0], dtype=np.uint8)

    NEAR_METERS, FAR_METERS = 0.2, 5.0

    # Normalize to [0,1], then flip so near → bright (yellow), far → dark (purple)
    clamped = min(max(float(z_depth_m), NEAR_METERS), FAR_METERS)
    normalized_position = (clamped - NEAR_METERS) / (FAR_METERS - NEAR_METERS + 1e-12)
    gradient_position = 1.0 - normalized_position

    # Viridis-like anchor colors: purple → blue → teal → green → yellow
    color_stops = [
        (68, 1, 84),
        (59, 82, 139),
        (33, 145, 140),
        (94, 201, 98),
        (253, 231, 37),
    ]

    # Locate segment and blend between its endpoints
    segment_count = len(color_stops) - 1
    continuous_index = gradient_position * segment_count
    lower_segment_index = int(continuous_index)

    if lower_segment_index >= segment_count:
        red, green, blue = color_stops[-1]
    else:
        segment_fraction = continuous_index - lower_segment_index
        r0, g0, b0 = color_stops[lower_segment_index]
        r1, g1, b1 = color_stops[lower_segment_index + 1]
        red   = r0 + segment_fraction * (r1 - r0)
        green = g0 + segment_fraction * (g1 - g0)
        blue  = b0 + segment_fraction * (b1 - b0)

    return np.array([int(red), int(green), int(blue)], dtype=np.uint8)
```

### Preparing Data for Visualization

```python
print("=== Preparing MPS SLAM results for visualization ===")

# Check if we have valid SLAM data to visualize
if not closed_loop_trajectory or not semidense_points:
    raise RuntimeError("Warning: This tutorial requires valid MPS SLAM data to run.")

# --
# Prepare Trajectory data
# --
# Select a short segment of trajectory (e.g., first 5000 samples, subsampled by 50)
segment_length = min(50000, len(closed_loop_trajectory))
trajectory_segment = closed_loop_trajectory[:segment_length:50]
timestamp_to_pose = {
    pose.tracking_timestamp: pose for pose in trajectory_segment
}
print(f"Finished preparing a trajectory of length {len(trajectory_segment)}... ")

# -----------
# Prepare Semidense point data
# -----------
# Filter the semidense point cloud by confidence and limit max point count, and extract the point positions
filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data = filter_points_from_confidence(semidense_points)
points_positions = np.array(
    [
        point.position_world for point in filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data
    ]
)
print(f"Finished preparing filtered semidense points cloud of {len(filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data)} points... ")

# -----------
# Prepare Semidense observation data
# -----------
# Based on RGB observations, create a per-timestamp point position list, and color them according to its distance from RGB camera
point_uid_to_position = {
    point.uid: np.array(point.position_world) for point in filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data
}

# A helper function that creates a easier-to-query mapping to obtain observations according to timestamps
slam_1_serial = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration().get_camera_calib("slam-front-left").get_serial_number()
timestamp_to_point_positions = defaultdict(list)  # t_ns -> [position, position, ...]
timestamp_to_point_colors = defaultdict(list) # t_ns -> [color, color, ...]

for obs in semidense_observations:
    # Only add observations for SLAM_1 camera, and if the timestamp is in the chosen trajectory segment
    if (
        obs.camera_serial == slam_1_serial and
        obs.frame_capture_timestamp in timestamp_to_pose and
        obs.point_uid in point_uid_to_position):
        # Insert point position
        obs_timestamp = obs.frame_capture_timestamp
        point_position = point_uid_to_position[obs.point_uid]
        timestamp_to_point_positions[obs_timestamp].append(point_position)

        # Insert point color
        T_world_device = timestamp_to_pose[obs_timestamp].transform_world_device
        point_in_device = T_world_device.inverse() @ point_position
        point_z_depth = point_in_device.squeeze()[2]
        point_color = color_from_zdepth(point_z_depth)
        timestamp_to_point_colors[obs_timestamp].append(point_color)

from itertools import islice
print(f"Finished preparing semidense points observations: ")
for timestamp, points in islice(timestamp_to_point_positions.items(), 5):
    print(f"\t timestamp {int(timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e9)} ns has {len(points)} observed points in slam-front-left view. ")
print(f"\t ...")
```

### 3D Visualization with Rerun

```python
import rerun as rr
import numpy as np
from projectaria_tools.utils.rerun_helpers import (
    AriaGlassesOutline,
    ToTransform3D,
    ToBox3D,
)
from projectaria_tools.core.mps.utils import (
    filter_points_from_confidence,
    get_nearest_pose,
)

print("=== Visualizing MPS SLAM Results in 3D ===")

# Initialize Rerun
rr.init("MPS SLAM Visualization")
rr.notebook_show()

# Set up the 3D scene
rr.log("world", rr.ViewCoordinates.RIGHT_HAND_Z_UP, static=True)

# Log point cloud
rr.log(
    "world/semidense_points",
    rr.Points3D(
        positions=points_positions,
        colors=[255, 255, 255, 125],
        radii=0.001
    ),
    static=True
)

# Aria glass outline for visualization purpose
device_calib = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration()
aria_glasses_point_outline = AriaGlassesOutline(
    device_calib, use_cad_calib=True
)

# Plot Closed loop trajectory
closed_loop_traj_cached_full = []
observation_points_cached = None
observation_colors_cached = None
for closed_loop_pose in trajectory_segment:
    capture_timestamp_ns = int(closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e9)
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", capture_timestamp_ns)

    T_world_device = closed_loop_pose.transform_world_device

    # Log device pose as a coordinate frame
    rr.log(
        "world/device",
        ToTransform3D(
            T_world_device,
            axis_length=0.05,
        ),
    )

    # Plot Aria glass outline
    rr.log(
        "world/device/glasses_outline",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            aria_glasses_point_outline,
            colors=[150,200,40],
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
    )

    # Plot gravity direction vector
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_gravity",
        rr.Arrows3D(
            origins=[T_world_device.translation()[0]],
            vectors=[
                closed_loop_pose.gravity_world * 1e-2
            ],  # length converted from 9.8 meter -> 10 cm
            colors=[101,67,33],
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

    # Update cached results for observations. Cache is needed because observation has a much lower freq than high-freq trajectory.
    if closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp in timestamp_to_point_positions.keys():
        observation_points_cached = timestamp_to_point_positions[closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp]
        observation_colors_cached = timestamp_to_point_colors[closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp]
    if observation_points_cached is not None:
        rr.log(
            "world/semidense_observations",
            rr.Points3D(
            positions = observation_points_cached,
            colors = observation_colors_cached,
            radii=0.01
            ),
            static = False
        )


    # Plot the entire VIO trajectory that are cached so far
    closed_loop_traj_cached_full.append(T_world_device.translation()[0])
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_trajectory",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            closed_loop_traj_cached_full,
            colors=[173, 216, 255],
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

```

## Understanding MPS Data Structures

### Trajectory Data Types

#### ClosedLoopTrajectoryPose
- **tracking_timestamp**: Device timestamp when pose was computed
- **utc_timestamp**: UTC timestamp
- **transform_world_device**: 6DOF pose in world coordinate frame
- **device_linear_velocity_device**: Linear velocity in device frame
- **angular_velocity_device**: Angular velocity in device frame
- **quality_score**: Pose estimation quality (higher = better)
- **gravity_world**: Gravity vector in world frame
- **graph_uid**: Unique identifier for the pose graph

#### OpenLoopTrajectoryPose
- **tracking_timestamp**: Device timestamp when pose was computed
- **utc_timestamp**: UTC timestamp
- **transform_odometry_device**: 6DOF pose in odometry coordinate frame
- **device_linear_velocity_odometry**: Linear velocity in odometry frame
- **angular_velocity_device**: Angular velocity in device frame
- **quality_score**: Pose estimation quality (higher = better)
- **gravity_odometry**: Gravity vector in odometry frame
- **session_uid**: Unique identifier for the session

### Point Cloud Data Types

#### GlobalPointPosition
- **uid**: Unique identifier for the 3D point
- **graph_uid**: Identifier linking point to pose graph
- **position_world**: 3D position in world coordinate frame
- **inverse_distance_std**: Inverse distance standard deviation (quality metric)
- **distance_std**: Distance standard deviation (quality metric)

#### PointObservation
- **point_uid**: Links observation to 3D point
- **frame_capture_timestamp**: When the observation was captured
- **camera_serial**: Serial number of the observing camera
- **uv**: 2D pixel coordinates of the observation

## MPS vs On-Device Comparisons

### Key Differences

| Aspect | On-Device (VIO/SLAM) | MPS SLAM |
|--------|---------------------|----------|
| **Processing** | Real-time during recording | Cloud-based post-processing |
| **Accuracy** | Good for real-time use | Higher accuracy with global optimization |
| **Frequency** | 20Hz (VIO), 800Hz (high-freq) | 1kHz (both open/closed loop) |
| **Drift** | Accumulates over time | Minimized with loop closure |
| **Point Cloud** | Not available | Dense semi-dense reconstructions |
| **Coordinate Frame** | Odometry frame | Global world frame |

### Use Cases

- **On-Device Data**: Real-time applications, live feedback, immediate processing
- **MPS Data**: High-quality reconstruction, research analysis, detailed mapping

## Summary

This tutorial covered the essential aspects of working with MPS data:

- **Trajectory Access**: Loading both open loop and closed loop trajectories
- **Point Cloud Data**: Accessing semi-dense 3D reconstructions and observations
- **Data Filtering**: Using confidence thresholds to improve point cloud quality
- **3D Visualization**: Creating comprehensive visualizations with trajectories and point clouds
- **Data Structures**: Understanding the comprehensive MPS data formats

MPS provides high-quality, globally consistent 3D reconstructions that are ideal for:
- **Research Applications**: Detailed spatial analysis and mapping
- **3D Reconstruction**: High-fidelity environmental modeling
- **Motion Analysis**: Accurate trajectory analysis without drift
- **Multi-modal Studies**: Combining precise 3D data with sensor information
- **Benchmarking**: Comparing against ground truth for algorithm development

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add sample data links.
Summary:
This diff adds gen2 sample data link to the notebook and tutorials.

It also slightly changed how `notebook_show()` is called, it should be at the end of the cell block.

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84948289

fbshipit-source-id: b0b91de7015a5882e343f30d34c857ffb261d174

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/mps.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Loading and Visualizing MPS Output Data
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 7: Loading and Visualizing MPS Output Data

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_7_mps_data_provider_basics.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

This tutorial demonstrates how to access and visualize **Machine Perception Services (MPS)** results. MPS provides cloud-based processing of Aria data to generate high-quality 3D reconstruction, SLAM trajectories, and other perception outputs.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to load and access MPS SLAM trajectory data (open loop and closed loop)
- How to load and visualize MPS semi-dense point clouds and observations
- How to create 3D visualizations of MPS SLAM results

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Complete Tutorial 2 (Device Calibration) to understand how to properly use calibration in Aria data.
- Download Aria Gen2 sample data: [VRS](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_1.vrs) and [MPS output zip file](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_1_mps_output.zip).

**Note on Visualization**
If visualization window is not showing up, this is due to `Rerun` lib's caching issue. Just rerun the specific code cell.

```python
import os
from projectaria_tools.core import mps

# Set up paths to your MPS data
mps_folder_path = "path/to/your/mps/folder/"
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"

# Load VRS data provider for additional context
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## MPS SLAM Trajectories

### Understanding Open Loop vs Closed Loop Trajectories

MPS SLAM algorithm outputs 2 trajectory files (see [wiki page](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_trajectory) for data type definitions):

- **Open loop trajectory**: High-frequency (1kHz) odometry from visual-inertial odometry (VIO), accurate over short periods but drifts over time and distance.
- **Closed loop trajectory**: High-frequency (1kHz) pose from mapping with loop closure corrections, reducing drift but possibly less accurate locally over short spans.

### Loading Closed Loop Trajectory

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.mps.utils import (
    filter_points_from_confidence,
    get_nearest_pose,
)

print("=== MPS - Closed loop trajectory ===")

# Load MPS closed-loop trajectory data
closed_loop_trajectory_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "closed_loop_trajectory.csv"
)
closed_loop_trajectory = mps.read_closed_loop_trajectory(closed_loop_trajectory_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in closed_loop_trajectory
if closed_loop_trajectory:
    sample = closed_loop_trajectory[0]
    print("ClosedLoopTrajectoryPose sample:")
    print(f"  tracking_timestamp: {int(sample.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  utc_timestamp: {int(sample.utc_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  transform_world_device:\n{sample.transform_world_device}")
    print(f"  device_linear_velocity_device: {sample.device_linear_velocity_device}")
    print(f"  angular_velocity_device: {sample.angular_velocity_device}")
    print(f"  quality_score: {sample.quality_score}")
    print(f"  gravity_world: {sample.gravity_world}")
    print(f"  graph_uid: {sample.graph_uid}")
else:
    print("closed_loop_trajectory is empty.")
```

### Loading Open Loop Trajectory

```python
print("=== MPS - Open loop trajectory ===")

# Load MPS open-loop trajectory data
open_loop_trajectory_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "open_loop_trajectory.csv"
)
open_loop_trajectory = mps.read_open_loop_trajectory(open_loop_trajectory_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in open_loop_trajectory
if open_loop_trajectory:
    sample = open_loop_trajectory[0]
    print("OpenLoopTrajectoryPose sample:")
    print(f"  tracking_timestamp: {int(sample.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  utc_timestamp: {int(sample.utc_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  transform_odometry_device:\n{sample.transform_odometry_device}")
    print(f"  device_linear_velocity_odometry: {sample.device_linear_velocity_odometry}")
    print(f"  angular_velocity_device: {sample.angular_velocity_device}")
    print(f"  quality_score: {sample.quality_score}")
    print(f"  gravity_odometry: {sample.gravity_odometry}")
    print(f"  session_uid: {sample.session_uid}")
else:
    print("open_loop_trajectory is empty.")
```

## MPS Semi-dense Point Cloud and Observations

### Understanding Point Cloud Data

MPS SLAM algorithm outputs 2 files related to semi-dense point cloud (see [wiki page](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_pointcloud) for data type definitions):

- `semidense_points.csv.gz`: Global points in the world coordinate frame.
- `semidense_observations.csv.gz`: Point observations for each camera, at each timestamp.

Note that semidense point files are normally large, therefore loading them may take some time.

### Loading Semi-dense Point Cloud

```python
print("=== MPS - Semi-dense Point Cloud ===")

# Load MPS semi-dense point cloud data
semidense_points_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "semidense_points.csv.gz"
)
semidense_points = mps.read_global_point_cloud(semidense_points_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in semidense_points
if semidense_points:
    sample = semidense_points[0]
    print("GlobalPointPosition sample:")
    print(f"  uid: {sample.uid}")
    print(f"  graph_uid: {sample.graph_uid}")
    print(f"  position_world: {sample.position_world}")
    print(f"  inverse_distance_std: {sample.inverse_distance_std}")
    print(f"  distance_std: {sample.distance_std}")
    print(f"Total number of semi-dense points: {len(semidense_points)}")
else:
    print("semidense_points is empty.")

# Filter semidense points by inv_dep or depth.
# The filter will KEEP points with (inv_dep or depth < threshold)
filtered_semidense_points = filter_points_from_confidence(raw_points = semidense_points, threshold_invdep = 1e-3, threshold_dep = 5e-2)
print(f"Filtering semidense points from a total of {len(semidense_points)} points down to {len(filtered_semidense_points)}")
```

### Loading Point Observations

```python
print("=== MPS - Semi-dense Point Observations ===")

# Load MPS semi-dense point observations data
semidense_observations_file = os.path.join(
    mps_folder_path, "slam", "semidense_observations.csv.gz"
)
semidense_observations = mps.read_point_observations(semidense_observations_file)

# Print out the content of the first sample in semidense_observations
if semidense_observations:
    sample = semidense_observations[0]
    print("PointObservation sample:")
    print(f"  point_uid: {sample.point_uid}")
    print(f"  frame_capture_timestamp: {int(sample.frame_capture_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e6)} us")
    print(f"  camera_serial: {sample.camera_serial}")
    print(f"  uv: {sample.uv}")
    print(f"Total number of point observations: {len(semidense_observations)}")
else:
    print("semidense_observations is empty.")
```

## Visualizing MPS SLAM Results

In the following code snippet, we demonstrate how to visualize the MPS SLAM results in a 3D view.

We first prepare a short trajectory segment, then extract the semidense points position, along with timestamp-mapped observations for visualization purpose. Finally we plot everything in Rerun.

### Color Mapping Helper Function

```python
from collections import defaultdict
import numpy as np

# A helper coloring function
def color_from_zdepth(z_depth_m: float) -> np.ndarray:
    """
    Map z-depth (meters, along the camera's forward axis) to a bright Viridis-like RGB color.
    - If z_depth_m <= 0 (point is behind the camera), return black [0, 0, 0].
    - Near (0.2 m) -> yellow, Far (5.0 m) -> purple.
    Returns an array of shape (3,) with dtype=uint8.
    """
    if not np.isfinite(z_depth_m) or z_depth_m <= 0.0:
        return np.array([0, 0, 0], dtype=np.uint8)

    NEAR_METERS, FAR_METERS = 0.2, 5.0

    # Normalize to [0,1], then flip so near → bright (yellow), far → dark (purple)
    clamped = min(max(float(z_depth_m), NEAR_METERS), FAR_METERS)
    normalized_position = (clamped - NEAR_METERS) / (FAR_METERS - NEAR_METERS + 1e-12)
    gradient_position = 1.0 - normalized_position

    # Viridis-like anchor colors: purple → blue → teal → green → yellow
    color_stops = [
        (68, 1, 84),
        (59, 82, 139),
        (33, 145, 140),
        (94, 201, 98),
        (253, 231, 37),
    ]

    # Locate segment and blend between its endpoints
    segment_count = len(color_stops) - 1
    continuous_index = gradient_position * segment_count
    lower_segment_index = int(continuous_index)

    if lower_segment_index >= segment_count:
        red, green, blue = color_stops[-1]
    else:
        segment_fraction = continuous_index - lower_segment_index
        r0, g0, b0 = color_stops[lower_segment_index]
        r1, g1, b1 = color_stops[lower_segment_index + 1]
        red   = r0 + segment_fraction * (r1 - r0)
        green = g0 + segment_fraction * (g1 - g0)
        blue  = b0 + segment_fraction * (b1 - b0)

    return np.array([int(red), int(green), int(blue)], dtype=np.uint8)
```

### Preparing Data for Visualization

```python
print("=== Preparing MPS SLAM results for visualization ===")

# Check if we have valid SLAM data to visualize
if not closed_loop_trajectory or not semidense_points:
    raise RuntimeError("Warning: This tutorial requires valid MPS SLAM data to run.")

# --
# Prepare Trajectory data
# --
# Select a short segment of trajectory (e.g., first 5000 samples, subsampled by 50)
segment_length = min(50000, len(closed_loop_trajectory))
trajectory_segment = closed_loop_trajectory[:segment_length:50]
timestamp_to_pose = {
    pose.tracking_timestamp: pose for pose in trajectory_segment
}
print(f"Finished preparing a trajectory of length {len(trajectory_segment)}... ")

# -----------
# Prepare Semidense point data
# -----------
# Filter the semidense point cloud by confidence and limit max point count, and extract the point positions
filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data = filter_points_from_confidence(semidense_points)
points_positions = np.array(
    [
        point.position_world for point in filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data
    ]
)
print(f"Finished preparing filtered semidense points cloud of {len(filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data)} points... ")

# -----------
# Prepare Semidense observation data
# -----------
# Based on RGB observations, create a per-timestamp point position list, and color them according to its distance from RGB camera
point_uid_to_position = {
    point.uid: np.array(point.position_world) for point in filtered_semidense_point_cloud_data
}

# A helper function that creates a easier-to-query mapping to obtain observations according to timestamps
slam_1_serial = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration().get_camera_calib("slam-front-left").get_serial_number()
timestamp_to_point_positions = defaultdict(list)  # t_ns -> [position, position, ...]
timestamp_to_point_colors = defaultdict(list) # t_ns -> [color, color, ...]

for obs in semidense_observations:
    # Only add observations for SLAM_1 camera, and if the timestamp is in the chosen trajectory segment
    if (
        obs.camera_serial == slam_1_serial and
        obs.frame_capture_timestamp in timestamp_to_pose and
        obs.point_uid in point_uid_to_position):
        # Insert point position
        obs_timestamp = obs.frame_capture_timestamp
        point_position = point_uid_to_position[obs.point_uid]
        timestamp_to_point_positions[obs_timestamp].append(point_position)

        # Insert point color
        T_world_device = timestamp_to_pose[obs_timestamp].transform_world_device
        point_in_device = T_world_device.inverse() @ point_position
        point_z_depth = point_in_device.squeeze()[2]
        point_color = color_from_zdepth(point_z_depth)
        timestamp_to_point_colors[obs_timestamp].append(point_color)

from itertools import islice
print(f"Finished preparing semidense points observations: ")
for timestamp, points in islice(timestamp_to_point_positions.items(), 5):
    print(f"\t timestamp {int(timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e9)} ns has {len(points)} observed points in slam-front-left view. ")
print(f"\t ...")
```

### 3D Visualization with Rerun

```python
import rerun as rr
import numpy as np
from projectaria_tools.utils.rerun_helpers import (
    AriaGlassesOutline,
    ToTransform3D,
    ToBox3D,
)
from projectaria_tools.core.mps.utils import (
    filter_points_from_confidence,
    get_nearest_pose,
)

print("=== Visualizing MPS SLAM Results in 3D ===")

# Initialize Rerun
rr.init("MPS SLAM Visualization")

# Set up the 3D scene
rr.log("world", rr.ViewCoordinates.RIGHT_HAND_Z_UP, static=True)

# Log point cloud
rr.log(
    "world/semidense_points",
    rr.Points3D(
        positions=points_positions,
        colors=[255, 255, 255, 125],
        radii=0.001
    ),
    static=True
)

# Aria glass outline for visualization purpose
device_calib = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration()
aria_glasses_point_outline = AriaGlassesOutline(
    device_calib, use_cad_calib=True
)

# Plot Closed loop trajectory
closed_loop_traj_cached_full = []
observation_points_cached = None
observation_colors_cached = None
for closed_loop_pose in trajectory_segment:
    capture_timestamp_ns = int(closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e9)
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", capture_timestamp_ns)

    T_world_device = closed_loop_pose.transform_world_device

    # Log device pose as a coordinate frame
    rr.log(
        "world/device",
        ToTransform3D(
            T_world_device,
            axis_length=0.05,
        ),
    )

    # Plot Aria glass outline
    rr.log(
        "world/device/glasses_outline",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            aria_glasses_point_outline,
            colors=[150,200,40],
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
    )

    # Plot gravity direction vector
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_gravity",
        rr.Arrows3D(
            origins=[T_world_device.translation()[0]],
            vectors=[
                closed_loop_pose.gravity_world * 1e-2
            ],  # length converted from 9.8 meter -> 10 cm
            colors=[101,67,33],
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

    # Update cached results for observations. Cache is needed because observation has a much lower freq than high-freq trajectory.
    if closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp in timestamp_to_point_positions.keys():
        observation_points_cached = timestamp_to_point_positions[closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp]
        observation_colors_cached = timestamp_to_point_colors[closed_loop_pose.tracking_timestamp]
    if observation_points_cached is not None:
        rr.log(
            "world/semidense_observations",
            rr.Points3D(
            positions = observation_points_cached,
            colors = observation_colors_cached,
            radii=0.01
            ),
            static = False
        )


    # Plot the entire VIO trajectory that are cached so far
    closed_loop_traj_cached_full.append(T_world_device.translation()[0])
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_trajectory",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            closed_loop_traj_cached_full,
            colors=[173, 216, 255],
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

rr.notebook_show()
```

## Understanding MPS Data Structures

### Trajectory Data Types

#### ClosedLoopTrajectoryPose
- **tracking_timestamp**: Device timestamp when pose was computed
- **utc_timestamp**: UTC timestamp
- **transform_world_device**: 6DOF pose in world coordinate frame
- **device_linear_velocity_device**: Linear velocity in device frame
- **angular_velocity_device**: Angular velocity in device frame
- **quality_score**: Pose estimation quality (higher = better)
- **gravity_world**: Gravity vector in world frame
- **graph_uid**: Unique identifier for the pose graph

#### OpenLoopTrajectoryPose
- **tracking_timestamp**: Device timestamp when pose was computed
- **utc_timestamp**: UTC timestamp
- **transform_odometry_device**: 6DOF pose in odometry coordinate frame
- **device_linear_velocity_odometry**: Linear velocity in odometry frame
- **angular_velocity_device**: Angular velocity in device frame
- **quality_score**: Pose estimation quality (higher = better)
- **gravity_odometry**: Gravity vector in odometry frame
- **session_uid**: Unique identifier for the session

### Point Cloud Data Types

#### GlobalPointPosition
- **uid**: Unique identifier for the 3D point
- **graph_uid**: Identifier linking point to pose graph
- **position_world**: 3D position in world coordinate frame
- **inverse_distance_std**: Inverse distance standard deviation (quality metric)
- **distance_std**: Distance standard deviation (quality metric)

#### PointObservation
- **point_uid**: Links observation to 3D point
- **frame_capture_timestamp**: When the observation was captured
- **camera_serial**: Serial number of the observing camera
- **uv**: 2D pixel coordinates of the observation

## MPS vs On-Device Comparisons

### Key Differences

| Aspect | On-Device (VIO/SLAM) | MPS SLAM |
|--------|---------------------|----------|
| **Processing** | Real-time during recording | Cloud-based post-processing |
| **Accuracy** | Good for real-time use | Higher accuracy with global optimization |
| **Frequency** | 20Hz (VIO), 800Hz (high-freq) | 1kHz (both open/closed loop) |
| **Drift** | Accumulates over time | Minimized with loop closure |
| **Point Cloud** | Not available | Dense semi-dense reconstructions |
| **Coordinate Frame** | Odometry frame | Global world frame |

### Use Cases

- **On-Device Data**: Real-time applications, live feedback, immediate processing
- **MPS Data**: High-quality reconstruction, research analysis, detailed mapping

## Summary

This tutorial covered the essential aspects of working with MPS data:

- **Trajectory Access**: Loading both open loop and closed loop trajectories
- **Point Cloud Data**: Accessing semi-dense 3D reconstructions and observations
- **Data Filtering**: Using confidence thresholds to improve point cloud quality
- **3D Visualization**: Creating comprehensive visualizations with trajectories and point clouds
- **Data Structures**: Understanding the comprehensive MPS data formats

MPS provides high-quality, globally consistent 3D reconstructions that are ideal for:
- **Research Applications**: Detailed spatial analysis and mapping
- **3D Reconstruction**: High-fidelity environmental modeling
- **Motion Analysis**: Accurate trajectory analysis without drift
- **Multi-modal Studies**: Combining precise 3D data with sensor information
- **Benchmarking**: Comparing against ground truth for algorithm development
