website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/queue.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Access Multi-Sensor Data Sequentially
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 3: Sequential Accessing Multi-sensor Data

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_3_sequential_access_multi_sensor_data.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

This tutorial shows how to use the unified queued API in `vrs_data_provider` to efficiently **stream** multi-sensor data from Aria VRS files.

We will learn how to use the unified SensorData interface, access time-ordered sensor data queues, and customize stream control and time windowing for efficient processing.

In this tutorial, we will learn:

1. Use the basic queued API to iterate through all sensor data.
2. Explore the unified SensorData interface
3. Customize stream selection and time windowing in this queued API.
4. Apply frame rate subsampling for efficient processing

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## Basic Sequential Data Access API

The `deliver_queued_sensor_data()` method in `vrs_data_provider` provides a **unified** way to iterate through **all sensor data** in **timestamp order**. This is the primary API for sequential access to multi-sensor data.

**Key features of the queued API:**
- Returns data from ALL streams in the VRS file
- Orders data by device timestamp (chronological order)
- Customizable via stream selection, sub-sampling each stream, etc.
- The returned data can be further converted to each sensor type via a unified interface.

Here is a simple example to query the first K data samples from the VRS, and inspect each data sample's properties:

```python
print("\n=== Basic Sequential Data Access ===")
print("Processing all sensor data in timestamp order...")

# Variables to store how many data samples has arrived for each sensor stream
data_count = 0
per_stream_data_counts = {}
total_num_samples = 5000

# Call deliver queued sensor data API to obtain a "streamed" data, in sorted timestamp order
# The iterator would return a unified SensorData instance
print(f"Start inspecting the first {total_num_samples} data samples in the VRS")
for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data():
    # Which stream does this sensor data belong to
    stream_id = sensor_data.stream_id()
    stream_label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)

    # Aggregate data count for this stream
    data_count += 1
    if stream_label not in per_stream_data_counts:
        per_stream_data_counts[stream_label] = 0
    per_stream_data_counts[stream_label] += 1

    # Limit output for demonstration
    if data_count >= total_num_samples:
        print("Stopping after 5000 samples for demonstration...")
        break


# Print data counts for each sensor stream
print(f"\nTotal processed: {data_count} sensor data samples")
print("Data count per stream:")
for stream_label, count in per_stream_data_counts.items():
    print(f"\t{stream_label}: {count}")
```

## Understanding the Unified SensorData Interface

The queued API returns data using a unified `SensorData` interface. This allows you to handle different types of sensor data (images, IMU, audio, etc.) in a **consistent way**, regardless of the sensor type.

**Each SensorData object provides:**
- Stream ID and stream label for identification
- Sensor data type (IMAGE, IMU, AUDIO, etc.)
- Timestamps in different time domains
- Access to the actual sensor data (images, IMU, audio, etc.)

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import SensorDataType, TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions

print("\n=== Exploring the SensorData Interface ===")

# Get a few samples to examine their properties
data_count = 0
for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data():
    if data_count >= 5:
        break

    # Inspect where this sensor data come from, and what is its data type
    stream_id = sensor_data.stream_id()
    stream_label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)
    data_type = sensor_data.sensor_data_type()

    # Inspect the device timestamp of this sensor data
    device_time = sensor_data.get_time_ns(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)

    print(f"\nSample {data_count + 1}:")
    print(f"  Stream: {stream_label} (Stream ID: {stream_id})")
    print(f"  Type: {data_type}")
    print(f"  Device Time: {device_time/1e9:.6f}s")

    # Map sensor data to its specific type, and inspect its actual data content.
    # Here we use image and IMU as an example
    if data_type == SensorDataType.IMAGE:
        image_data = sensor_data.image_data_and_record()[0]
        print(f"  Image size: {image_data.get_width()} x {image_data.get_height()}")
        print(f"  Pixel format: {image_data.get_pixel_format()}")

    elif data_type == SensorDataType.IMU:
        imu_data = sensor_data.imu_data()
        accel = imu_data.accel_msec2
        gyro = imu_data.gyro_radsec
        print(f"  IMU Accel: [{accel[0]:.3f}, {accel[1]:.3f}, {accel[2]:.3f}] m/s²")
        print(f"  IMU Gyro: [{gyro[0]:.3f}, {gyro[1]:.3f}, {gyro[2]:.3f}] rad/s")

    data_count += 1
```

## Customizing Data Access with DeliverQueuedOptions

The real power of the queued API comes from **customization options**. The `DeliverQueuedOptions` class allows you to:

1. **Apply time windowing** - Process only specific time ranges.
2. **Select specific streams** - Choose which sensors to include.
3. **Subsample data** - Reduce frame rates for specific streams.

These all provide flexible ways to control the sensor queue, to focus on specific time periods or sensor modalities, or customize data rates for different analysis needs.

```python
import rerun as rr

print("\n=== Customizing Data Access with DeliverQueuedOptions ===")

customized_deliver_options = vrs_data_provider.get_default_deliver_queued_options()

# -----------------
# 1. Stream selection feature - only select RGB, 1 SLAM camera, and 1 ET camera data.
# -----------------
rgb_to_select = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
slam_to_select = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("slam-front-right")
et_to_select = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-et-right")

# First deactivate all streams, then just add back selected streams
customized_deliver_options.deactivate_stream_all()
for selected_stream_id in [rgb_to_select,slam_to_select,et_to_select]:
    customized_deliver_options.activate_stream(selected_stream_id)

# -----------------
# 2. Time windowing feature - Skip first 2 seconds, and play for 3 seconds, if possible
# -----------------
total_length_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) - vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
skip_begin_ns = int(2 * 1e9) # 2 seconds
duration_ns = int(3 * 1e9) # 3 seconds
skip_end_ns = max(total_length_ns - skip_begin_ns - duration_ns, 0)
customized_deliver_options.set_truncate_first_device_time_ns(skip_begin_ns)
customized_deliver_options.set_truncate_last_device_time_ns(skip_end_ns)

# -----------------
# 3. Per-stream sub-sampling feature - subsample slam camera at rate of 3
# -----------------
slam_subsample_rate = 3
customized_deliver_options.set_subsample_rate(stream_id = slam_to_select, rate = slam_subsample_rate)

# -----------------
# 4. Deliver customized data queue, and visualize
# -----------------
print(f"Start visualizing customized sensor data queue")

rr.init("rerun_viz_customized_sensor_data_queue")
rr.notebook_show()

for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data(customized_deliver_options):
    stream_id = sensor_data.stream_id()
    stream_label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)
    device_time_ns = sensor_data.get_time_ns(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)

    image_data_and_record = sensor_data.image_data_and_record()

    # Visualize
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", device_time_ns)
    rr.log(stream_label, rr.Image(image_data_and_record[0].to_numpy_array()))

```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add sample data links.
Summary:
This diff adds gen2 sample data link to the notebook and tutorials.

It also slightly changed how `notebook_show()` is called, it should be at the end of the cell block.

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84948289

fbshipit-source-id: b0b91de7015a5882e343f30d34c857ffb261d174

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/queue.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Access Multi-Sensor Data Sequentially
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 3: Sequential Accessing Multi-sensor Data

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_3_sequential_access_multi_sensor_data.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

This tutorial shows how to use the unified queued API in `vrs_data_provider` to efficiently **stream** multi-sensor data from Aria VRS files.

We will learn how to use the unified SensorData interface, access time-ordered sensor data queues, and customize stream control and time windowing for efficient processing.

In this tutorial, we will learn:

1. Use the basic queued API to iterate through all sensor data.
2. Explore the unified SensorData interface
3. Customize stream selection and time windowing in this queued API.
4. Apply frame rate subsampling for efficient processing

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Download Aria Gen2 sample data from [link](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_1.vrs)

**Note on Visualization**
If visualization window is not showing up, this is due to `Rerun` lib's caching issue. Just rerun the specific code cell.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## Basic Sequential Data Access API

The `deliver_queued_sensor_data()` method in `vrs_data_provider` provides a **unified** way to iterate through **all sensor data** in **timestamp order**. This is the primary API for sequential access to multi-sensor data.

**Key features of the queued API:**
- Returns data from ALL streams in the VRS file
- Orders data by device timestamp (chronological order)
- Customizable via stream selection, sub-sampling each stream, etc.
- The returned data can be further converted to each sensor type via a unified interface.

Here is a simple example to query the first K data samples from the VRS, and inspect each data sample's properties:

```python
print("\n=== Basic Sequential Data Access ===")
print("Processing all sensor data in timestamp order...")

# Variables to store how many data samples has arrived for each sensor stream
data_count = 0
per_stream_data_counts = {}
total_num_samples = 5000

# Call deliver queued sensor data API to obtain a "streamed" data, in sorted timestamp order
# The iterator would return a unified SensorData instance
print(f"Start inspecting the first {total_num_samples} data samples in the VRS")
for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data():
    # Which stream does this sensor data belong to
    stream_id = sensor_data.stream_id()
    stream_label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)

    # Aggregate data count for this stream
    data_count += 1
    if stream_label not in per_stream_data_counts:
        per_stream_data_counts[stream_label] = 0
    per_stream_data_counts[stream_label] += 1

    # Limit output for demonstration
    if data_count >= total_num_samples:
        print("Stopping after 5000 samples for demonstration...")
        break


# Print data counts for each sensor stream
print(f"\nTotal processed: {data_count} sensor data samples")
print("Data count per stream:")
for stream_label, count in per_stream_data_counts.items():
    print(f"\t{stream_label}: {count}")
```

## Understanding the Unified SensorData Interface

The queued API returns data using a unified `SensorData` interface. This allows you to handle different types of sensor data (images, IMU, audio, etc.) in a **consistent way**, regardless of the sensor type.

**Each SensorData object provides:**
- Stream ID and stream label for identification
- Sensor data type (IMAGE, IMU, AUDIO, etc.)
- Timestamps in different time domains
- Access to the actual sensor data (images, IMU, audio, etc.)

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import SensorDataType, TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions

print("\n=== Exploring the SensorData Interface ===")

# Get a few samples to examine their properties
data_count = 0
for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data():
    if data_count >= 5:
        break

    # Inspect where this sensor data come from, and what is its data type
    stream_id = sensor_data.stream_id()
    stream_label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)
    data_type = sensor_data.sensor_data_type()

    # Inspect the device timestamp of this sensor data
    device_time = sensor_data.get_time_ns(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)

    print(f"\nSample {data_count + 1}:")
    print(f"  Stream: {stream_label} (Stream ID: {stream_id})")
    print(f"  Type: {data_type}")
    print(f"  Device Time: {device_time/1e9:.6f}s")

    # Map sensor data to its specific type, and inspect its actual data content.
    # Here we use image and IMU as an example
    if data_type == SensorDataType.IMAGE:
        image_data = sensor_data.image_data_and_record()[0]
        print(f"  Image size: {image_data.get_width()} x {image_data.get_height()}")
        print(f"  Pixel format: {image_data.get_pixel_format()}")

    elif data_type == SensorDataType.IMU:
        imu_data = sensor_data.imu_data()
        accel = imu_data.accel_msec2
        gyro = imu_data.gyro_radsec
        print(f"  IMU Accel: [{accel[0]:.3f}, {accel[1]:.3f}, {accel[2]:.3f}] m/s²")
        print(f"  IMU Gyro: [{gyro[0]:.3f}, {gyro[1]:.3f}, {gyro[2]:.3f}] rad/s")

    data_count += 1
```

## Customizing Data Access with DeliverQueuedOptions

The real power of the queued API comes from **customization options**. The `DeliverQueuedOptions` class allows you to:

1. **Apply time windowing** - Process only specific time ranges.
2. **Select specific streams** - Choose which sensors to include.
3. **Subsample data** - Reduce frame rates for specific streams.

These all provide flexible ways to control the sensor queue, to focus on specific time periods or sensor modalities, or customize data rates for different analysis needs.

```python
import rerun as rr

print("\n=== Customizing Data Access with DeliverQueuedOptions ===")

customized_deliver_options = vrs_data_provider.get_default_deliver_queued_options()

# -----------------
# 1. Stream selection feature - only select RGB, 1 SLAM camera, and 1 ET camera data.
# -----------------
rgb_to_select = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
slam_to_select = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("slam-front-right")
et_to_select = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-et-right")

# First deactivate all streams, then just add back selected streams
customized_deliver_options.deactivate_stream_all()
for selected_stream_id in [rgb_to_select,slam_to_select,et_to_select]:
    customized_deliver_options.activate_stream(selected_stream_id)

# -----------------
# 2. Time windowing feature - Skip first 2 seconds, and play for 3 seconds, if possible
# -----------------
total_length_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) - vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
skip_begin_ns = int(2 * 1e9) # 2 seconds
duration_ns = int(3 * 1e9) # 3 seconds
skip_end_ns = max(total_length_ns - skip_begin_ns - duration_ns, 0)
customized_deliver_options.set_truncate_first_device_time_ns(skip_begin_ns)
customized_deliver_options.set_truncate_last_device_time_ns(skip_end_ns)

# -----------------
# 3. Per-stream sub-sampling feature - subsample slam camera at rate of 3
# -----------------
slam_subsample_rate = 3
customized_deliver_options.set_subsample_rate(stream_id = slam_to_select, rate = slam_subsample_rate)

# -----------------
# 4. Deliver customized data queue, and visualize
# -----------------
print(f"Start visualizing customized sensor data queue")

rr.init("rerun_viz_customized_sensor_data_queue")

for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data(customized_deliver_options):
    stream_id = sensor_data.stream_id()
    stream_label = vrs_data_provider.get_label_from_stream_id(stream_id)
    device_time_ns = sensor_data.get_time_ns(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)

    image_data_and_record = sensor_data.image_data_and_record()

    # Visualize
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", device_time_ns)
    rr.log(stream_label, rr.Image(image_data_and_record[0].to_numpy_array()))

rr.notebook_show()
```
