website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/time-sync.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
title: Timestamp Alignment in Aria Gen2
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 6: Device Time Alignment in Aria Gen2

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_6_timestamp_alignment_in_aria_gen2.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

In Project Aria glasses, one of the key features is that it provides multi-sensor data that are **temporally aligned** to a shared, device-time domain for each single device, and also provide **multi-device Time Alignment** using SubGHz signals (Aria Gen2), TICSync (Aria Gen1), or TimeCode signals (Aria Gen1). In this tutorial, we will demonstrate how to use such temporal aligned data from Aria Gen2 recordings.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to access temporally aligned sensor data on a single VRS recording.
- How to access temporally aligned sensor data across multiple recordings using SubGHz signals.

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Complete Tutorial 3 (Sequential Access multi-sensor data) to understand how to create a queue of sensor data from VRS file.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## Single-Device Timestamp alignment

In `projectaria_tools`, every timestamp is linked to a specific `TimeDomain`, which represents the time reference or clock used to generate that timestamp. Timestamps from different `TimeDomain`s are not directly comparable—only timestamps within the same `TimeDomain` are consistent and can be accurately compared or aligned.

### Supported Time Domains

> **Important: Use `DEVICE_TIME` for single-device Aria data analysis**

The following table shows all supported time domains in `projectaria_tools`. **For single-device Aria data analysis, use `DEVICE_TIME` for accurate temporal alignment between sensors.**

| Time Domain | Description | Usage |
|--|--|--|
| **DEVICE_TIME (Recommended)**| Capture time in device's time domain. Accurate and reliable. All sensors on the same Aria device share the same device time domain. | **Use this for single-device Aria data analysis** |
| **RECORD_TIME** | Timestamps stored in the index of VRS files. For Aria glasses, these are equal to device timestamp converted to double-precision floating point. | Fast access, but use DEVICE_TIME for accuracy |
| **HOST_TIME** | Timestamps when sensor data is saved to the device (not when captured). | Should not be needed for any purpose |
| **--- Time Domains for Multi-device time alignment ---** |  | |
| SUBGHZ | Multi-device time alignment option for Aria Gen2 | See next part in this tutorial |
| UTC | Multi-device time alignment option  | See next part in this tutorial |
| TIME_CODE | Multi-device time alignment option for Aria Gen1 | See [Gen1 multi-device tutorial](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen1/python_notebooks/ticsync_tutorial.ipynb) |
| TIC_SYNC | Multi-device time alignment option for Aria Gen1 | See [Gen1 multi-device tutorial](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen1/python_notebooks/ticsync_tutorial.ipynb) |

### Data API to query by timestamp

The VRS data provider offers powerful timestamp-based data access through the `get_<SENSOR>_data_by_time_ns()` API family. This is the recommended approach for temporal alignment across sensors and precise timestamp-based data retrieval.

For any sensor type, you can query data by timestamp using the `get_<SENSOR>_data_by_time_ns()` function, where `<SENSOR>` can be replaced by any sensor data type available in Aria VRS. See the [VrsDataProvider.h](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h) for a complete list of supported sensor types.

**TimeQueryOptions**

This `TimeQueryOptions` parameter controls how the system finds data when your query timestamp doesn't exactly match a recorded timestamp:

| Option | Behavior | Use Case |
|--|--|--|
| **BEFORE** | Returns the last valid data with `timestamp ≤ query_time` | **Default and most common** - Get the most recent data before or at the query time |
| **AFTER** | Returns the first valid data with `timestamp ≥ query_time` | Get the next available data after or at the query time |
| **CLOSEST** | Returns data with smallest `|timestamp - query_time|` | Get the temporally closest data regardless of direction |

### Boundary Behavior

The API handles edge cases automatically:

| Query Condition | BEFORE | AFTER | CLOSEST |
|--|--|--|--|
| `query_time < first_timestamp` | Returns invalid data | Returns first data | Returns first data |
| `first_timestamp ≤ query_time ≤ last_timestamp` | Returns data with `timestamp ≤ query_time` | Returns data with `timestamp ≥ query_time` | Returns temporally closest data |
| `query_time > last_timestamp` | Returns last data | Returns invalid data | Returns last data |

### Single VRS Timestamp-Based Query Example

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import SensorDataType, TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions

print("=== Single VRS timestamp based query ===")

# Select RGB stream ID
rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")

# Get a timestamp within the recording (3 seconds after start)
start_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
selected_timestamp_ns = start_timestamp_ns + int(3e9)

# Fetch the RGB frame that is CLOSEST to this selected timestamp_ns
closest_rgb_data_and_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
    time_ns = selected_timestamp_ns,
    time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST
)
closest_timestamp_ns = closest_rgb_data_and_record[1].capture_timestamp_ns
closest_frame_number = closest_rgb_data_and_record[1].frame_number
print(f" The closest RGB frame to query timestamp {selected_timestamp_ns} is the {closest_frame_number}-th frame, with capture timestamp of {closest_timestamp_ns}")

# Fetch the frame BEFORE this frame
prev_rgb_data_and_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
    time_ns = closest_timestamp_ns - 1,
    time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.BEFORE
)
prev_timestamp_ns = prev_rgb_data_and_record[1].capture_timestamp_ns
prev_frame_number = prev_rgb_data_and_record[1].frame_number
print(f" The previous RGB frame is the {prev_frame_number}-th frame, with capture timestamp of {prev_timestamp_ns}")

# Fetch the frame AFTER this frame
next_rgb_data_and_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
    time_ns = closest_timestamp_ns + 1,
    time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.AFTER
)
next_timestamp_ns = next_rgb_data_and_record[1].capture_timestamp_ns
next_frame_number = next_rgb_data_and_record[1].frame_number
print(f" The next RGB frame is the {next_frame_number}-th frame, with capture timestamp of {next_timestamp_ns}")
```

### Visualizing Synchronized Multi-sensor Data

In this additional example, we demonstrate how to query and visualize "groups" of RGB + SLAM images approximately at the same timestamp.

```python
import rerun as rr

print("=== Single VRS timestamp-based query visualization examples ===")
rr.init("rerun_viz_single_vrs_timestamp_based_query")
rr.notebook_show()

# Select RGB and SLAM stream IDs to visualize
all_labels = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration().get_camera_labels()
slam_labels = [label for label in all_labels if "slam" in label ]
slam_stream_ids = [vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(label) for label in slam_labels]
rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")

# Starting from +3 seconds into the recording, and at 5Hz frequency
target_period_ns = int(2e8)
start_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) + int(3e9)

# Plot 20 samples
current_timestamp_ns = start_timestamp_ns
for frame_i in range(20):
    # Query and plot RGB image
    rgb_image_data, rgb_image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
        stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
        time_ns = current_timestamp_ns,
        time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
        time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", rgb_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns)
    rr.log("rgb_image", rr.Image(rgb_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # Query and plot SLAM images
    for slam_i in range(len(slam_labels)):
        single_slam_label = slam_labels[slam_i]
        single_slam_stream_id = slam_stream_ids[slam_i]

        slam_image_data, slam_image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
            stream_id = single_slam_stream_id,
            time_ns = current_timestamp_ns,
            time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
            time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)
        rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", slam_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns)
        rr.log(single_slam_label, rr.Image(slam_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # Increment query timestamp
    current_timestamp_ns += target_period_ns

```

## Multi-Device Timestamp alignment

While recording, multiple Aria-Gen2 glasses can enable a feature that allows their timestamps to be mapped across devices using SubGHz signals. Please refer to the multi-device recording wiki page from ARK (TODO: add link) to learn how to record with this feature.

Basically, one pair of glasses acts as the **host** device, that actively broadcasts SubGHz signals to a specified channel;
all other glasses act as **client** devices, that receives the SubGHz signals, and record a new `Time Domain Mapping` data streams in their VRS file.
It is essentially a timestamp hash mapping from **host** `DEVICE_TIME` -> **client** `DEVICE_TIME`.
Therefore this mapping data stream **only exists in client VRS**, but not **host VRS**.

In `projectaria_tools`, we provide 2 types of APIs to easily perform timestamp-based query across multi-device recordings:

1. **Converter APIs** provides direct convert functions that maps timestamps between any 2 `TimeDomain`.
2. **Query APIs** that allows users to specifies `time_domain = TimeDomain.SUBGHZ` in a client VRS, to query "from timestamp of the host".

The following code shows examples of using each type of API.
Note that in the visualization example, the host and client windows will play intermittently.
This is expected and correct, because the host and client devices' RGB cameras are NOT trigger aligned by nature.

### Timestamp Converter APIs

```python
import rerun as rr
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import (
    SensorData,
    ImageData,
    TimeDomain,
    TimeQueryOptions,
    TimeSyncMode,
)

# Create data providers for both host and client recordings
host_recording = "path/to/host.vrs"
host_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(host_recording)

client_recording = "path/to/client.vrs"
client_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(client_recording)

print("======= Multi-VRS time mapping example: Timestamp converter APIs ======")

# Because host and client recordings may start at different times,
# we manually pick a timestamp in the middle of the host recording.
# Note that for host, we always use DEVICE_TIME domain.
selected_timestamp_host = (host_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) +
    host_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)) // 2

# Convert from host time to client time
selected_timestamp_client = client_data_provider.convert_from_synctime_to_device_time_ns(selected_timestamp_host, TimeSyncMode.SUBGHZ)

# Convert from client time back to host time. Note that there could be some small numerical differences compared
selected_timestamp_host_roundtrip = client_data_provider.convert_from_device_time_to_synctime_ns(selected_timestamp_client, TimeSyncMode.SUBGHZ)

print(f" Selected host timestamp is {selected_timestamp_host}; ")
print(f" Converted to client timestamp is {selected_timestamp_client}; ")
print(f" Then roundtrip convert back to host:{selected_timestamp_host_roundtrip}, "
     f" And delta value from original host timestamp is {selected_timestamp_host_roundtrip - selected_timestamp_host}. This is mainly due to numerical errors. ")
```

### Multi-Device Query APIs

```python
print("======= Multi-VRS time mapping example: Query APIs ======")
rr.init("rerun_viz_multi_vrs_time_mapping")

# Set up sensor queue options in host VRS, only turn on RGB stream
host_deliver_options = host_data_provider.get_default_deliver_queued_options()
host_deliver_options.deactivate_stream_all()
rgb_stream_id = host_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
host_deliver_options.activate_stream(rgb_stream_id)

# Select only a segment to plot
host_vrs_start_timestamp = host_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
host_segment_start = host_vrs_start_timestamp + int(20e9) # 20 seconds after start
host_segment_duration = int(5e9)
host_segment_end = host_segment_start + host_segment_duration
host_vrs_end_timestamp = host_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
host_deliver_options.set_truncate_first_device_time_ns(host_segment_start - host_vrs_start_timestamp)
host_deliver_options.set_truncate_last_device_time_ns(host_vrs_end_timestamp - host_segment_end)

# Plot RGB image data from both host and client
for sensor_data in host_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data(host_deliver_options):
    # ---------
    # Plotting in host.
    # Everything is done in DEVICE_TIME domain.
    # ---------
    host_image_data, host_image_record = sensor_data.image_data_and_record()

    # Set timestamps directly from host image record
    host_timestamp_ns = host_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", host_timestamp_ns)

    rr.log("rgb_image_in_host", rr.Image(host_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # ---------
    # Plotting in client.
    # All the query APIs are done in SUBGHZ domain.
    # ---------
    # Query the closest RGB image from client VRS
    client_image_data, client_image_record = client_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
        stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
        time_ns = host_timestamp_ns,
        time_domain = TimeDomain.SUBGHZ,
        time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)

    # Still need to convert client's device time back to host's time,
    # because we want to log this image data on host's timeline in Rerun
    client_timestamp_ns = client_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    converted_client_timestamp_ns = client_data_provider.convert_from_device_time_to_synctime_ns(client_timestamp_ns, TimeSyncMode.SUBGHZ)
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", converted_client_timestamp_ns)

    # Plot client image
    rr.log("rgb_image_in_client", rr.Image(client_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

rr.notebook_show()
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add sample data links.
Summary:
This diff adds gen2 sample data link to the notebook and tutorials.

It also slightly changed how `notebook_show()` is called, it should be at the end of the cell block.

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84948289

fbshipit-source-id: b0b91de7015a5882e343f30d34c857ffb261d174

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/time-sync.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
title: Timestamp Alignment in Aria Gen2
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 6: Device Time Alignment in Aria Gen2

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_6_timestamp_alignment_in_aria_gen2.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

In Project Aria glasses, one of the key features is that it provides multi-sensor data that are **temporally aligned** to a shared, device-time domain for each single device, and also provide **multi-device Time Alignment** using SubGHz signals (Aria Gen2), TICSync (Aria Gen1), or TimeCode signals (Aria Gen1). In this tutorial, we will demonstrate how to use such temporal aligned data from Aria Gen2 recordings.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to access temporally aligned sensor data on a single VRS recording.
- How to access temporally aligned sensor data across multiple recordings using SubGHz signals.

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Complete Tutorial 3 (Sequential Access multi-sensor data) to understand how to create a queue of sensor data from VRS file.
- Download Aria Gen2 sample data: [host recording](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_host_1.vrs) and [client recording](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_client_1.vrs)


**Note on visualization:**
If visualization window is not showing up, this is due to `Rerun` lib's caching issue. Just rerun the specific code cell, or restart the Python kernel.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)
```

## Single-Device Timestamp alignment

In `projectaria_tools`, every timestamp is linked to a specific `TimeDomain`, which represents the time reference or clock used to generate that timestamp. Timestamps from different `TimeDomain`s are not directly comparable—only timestamps within the same `TimeDomain` are consistent and can be accurately compared or aligned.

### Supported Time Domains

> **Important: Use `DEVICE_TIME` for single-device Aria data analysis**

The following table shows all supported time domains in `projectaria_tools`. **For single-device Aria data analysis, use `DEVICE_TIME` for accurate temporal alignment between sensors.**

| Time Domain | Description | Usage |
|--|--|--|
| **DEVICE_TIME (Recommended)**| Capture time in device's time domain. Accurate and reliable. All sensors on the same Aria device share the same device time domain. | **Use this for single-device Aria data analysis** |
| **RECORD_TIME** | Timestamps stored in the index of VRS files. For Aria glasses, these are equal to device timestamp converted to double-precision floating point. | Fast access, but use DEVICE_TIME for accuracy |
| **HOST_TIME** | Timestamps when sensor data is saved to the device (not when captured). | Should not be needed for any purpose |
| **--- Time Domains for Multi-device time alignment ---** |  | |
| SUBGHZ | Multi-device time alignment option for Aria Gen2 | See next part in this tutorial |
| UTC | Multi-device time alignment option  | See next part in this tutorial |
| TIME_CODE | Multi-device time alignment option for Aria Gen1 | See [Gen1 multi-device tutorial](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen1/python_notebooks/ticsync_tutorial.ipynb) |
| TIC_SYNC | Multi-device time alignment option for Aria Gen1 | See [Gen1 multi-device tutorial](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen1/python_notebooks/ticsync_tutorial.ipynb) |

### Data API to query by timestamp

The VRS data provider offers powerful timestamp-based data access through the `get_<SENSOR>_data_by_time_ns()` API family. This is the recommended approach for temporal alignment across sensors and precise timestamp-based data retrieval.

For any sensor type, you can query data by timestamp using the `get_<SENSOR>_data_by_time_ns()` function, where `<SENSOR>` can be replaced by any sensor data type available in Aria VRS. See the [VrsDataProvider.h](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h) for a complete list of supported sensor types.

**TimeQueryOptions**

This `TimeQueryOptions` parameter controls how the system finds data when your query timestamp doesn't exactly match a recorded timestamp:

| Option | Behavior | Use Case |
|--|--|--|
| **BEFORE** | Returns the last valid data with `timestamp ≤ query_time` | **Default and most common** - Get the most recent data before or at the query time |
| **AFTER** | Returns the first valid data with `timestamp ≥ query_time` | Get the next available data after or at the query time |
| **CLOSEST** | Returns data with smallest `|timestamp - query_time|` | Get the temporally closest data regardless of direction |

### Boundary Behavior

The API handles edge cases automatically:

| Query Condition | BEFORE | AFTER | CLOSEST |
|--|--|--|--|
| `query_time < first_timestamp` | Returns invalid data | Returns first data | Returns first data |
| `first_timestamp ≤ query_time ≤ last_timestamp` | Returns data with `timestamp ≤ query_time` | Returns data with `timestamp ≥ query_time` | Returns temporally closest data |
| `query_time > last_timestamp` | Returns last data | Returns invalid data | Returns last data |

### Single VRS Timestamp-Based Query Example

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import SensorDataType, TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions

print("=== Single VRS timestamp based query ===")

# Select RGB stream ID
rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")

# Get a timestamp within the recording (3 seconds after start)
start_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
selected_timestamp_ns = start_timestamp_ns + int(3e9)

# Fetch the RGB frame that is CLOSEST to this selected timestamp_ns
closest_rgb_data_and_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
    time_ns = selected_timestamp_ns,
    time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST
)
closest_timestamp_ns = closest_rgb_data_and_record[1].capture_timestamp_ns
closest_frame_number = closest_rgb_data_and_record[1].frame_number
print(f" The closest RGB frame to query timestamp {selected_timestamp_ns} is the {closest_frame_number}-th frame, with capture timestamp of {closest_timestamp_ns}")

# Fetch the frame BEFORE this frame
prev_rgb_data_and_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
    time_ns = closest_timestamp_ns - 1,
    time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.BEFORE
)
prev_timestamp_ns = prev_rgb_data_and_record[1].capture_timestamp_ns
prev_frame_number = prev_rgb_data_and_record[1].frame_number
print(f" The previous RGB frame is the {prev_frame_number}-th frame, with capture timestamp of {prev_timestamp_ns}")

# Fetch the frame AFTER this frame
next_rgb_data_and_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
    stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
    time_ns = closest_timestamp_ns + 1,
    time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
    time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.AFTER
)
next_timestamp_ns = next_rgb_data_and_record[1].capture_timestamp_ns
next_frame_number = next_rgb_data_and_record[1].frame_number
print(f" The next RGB frame is the {next_frame_number}-th frame, with capture timestamp of {next_timestamp_ns}")
```

### Visualizing Synchronized Multi-sensor Data

In this additional example, we demonstrate how to query and visualize "groups" of RGB + SLAM images approximately at the same timestamp.

```python
import rerun as rr

print("=== Single VRS timestamp-based query visualization examples ===")
rr.init("rerun_viz_single_vrs_timestamp_based_query")

# Select RGB and SLAM stream IDs to visualize
all_labels = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration().get_camera_labels()
slam_labels = [label for label in all_labels if "slam" in label ]
slam_stream_ids = [vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(label) for label in slam_labels]
rgb_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")

# Starting from +3 seconds into the recording, and at 5Hz frequency
target_period_ns = int(2e8)
start_timestamp_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns(rgb_stream_id, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) + int(3e9)

# Plot 20 samples
current_timestamp_ns = start_timestamp_ns
for frame_i in range(20):
    # Query and plot RGB image
    rgb_image_data, rgb_image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
        stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
        time_ns = current_timestamp_ns,
        time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
        time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", rgb_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns)
    rr.log("rgb_image", rr.Image(rgb_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # Query and plot SLAM images
    for slam_i in range(len(slam_labels)):
        single_slam_label = slam_labels[slam_i]
        single_slam_stream_id = slam_stream_ids[slam_i]

        slam_image_data, slam_image_record = vrs_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
            stream_id = single_slam_stream_id,
            time_ns = current_timestamp_ns,
            time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME,
            time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)
        rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", slam_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns)
        rr.log(single_slam_label, rr.Image(slam_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # Increment query timestamp
    current_timestamp_ns += target_period_ns

rr.notebook_show()
```

## Multi-Device Timestamp alignment

While recording, multiple Aria-Gen2 glasses can enable a feature that allows their timestamps to be mapped across devices using SubGHz signals. Please refer to the multi-device recording wiki page from ARK (TODO: add link) to learn how to record with this feature.

Basically, one pair of glasses acts as the **host** device, that actively broadcasts SubGHz signals to a specified channel;
all other glasses act as **client** devices, that receives the SubGHz signals, and record a new `Time Domain Mapping` data streams in their VRS file.
It is essentially a timestamp hash mapping from **host** `DEVICE_TIME` -> **client** `DEVICE_TIME`.
Therefore this mapping data stream **only exists in client VRS**, but not **host VRS**.

In `projectaria_tools`, we provide 2 types of APIs to easily perform timestamp-based query across multi-device recordings:

1. **Converter APIs** provides direct convert functions that maps timestamps between any 2 `TimeDomain`.
2. **Query APIs** that allows users to specifies `time_domain = TimeDomain.SUBGHZ` in a client VRS, to query "from timestamp of the host".

The following code shows examples of using each type of API.
Note that in the visualization example, the host and client windows will play intermittently.
This is expected and correct, because the host and client devices' RGB cameras are NOT trigger aligned by nature.

### Timestamp Converter APIs

```python
import rerun as rr
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import (
    SensorData,
    ImageData,
    TimeDomain,
    TimeQueryOptions,
    TimeSyncMode,
)

# Create data providers for both host and client recordings
host_recording = "path/to/host.vrs"
host_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(host_recording)

client_recording = "path/to/client.vrs"
client_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(client_recording)

print("======= Multi-VRS time mapping example: Timestamp converter APIs ======")

# Because host and client recordings may start at different times,
# we manually pick a timestamp in the middle of the host recording.
# Note that for host, we always use DEVICE_TIME domain.
selected_timestamp_host = (host_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) +
    host_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)) // 2

# Convert from host time to client time
selected_timestamp_client = client_data_provider.convert_from_synctime_to_device_time_ns(selected_timestamp_host, TimeSyncMode.SUBGHZ)

# Convert from client time back to host time. Note that there could be some small numerical differences compared
selected_timestamp_host_roundtrip = client_data_provider.convert_from_device_time_to_synctime_ns(selected_timestamp_client, TimeSyncMode.SUBGHZ)

print(f" Selected host timestamp is {selected_timestamp_host}; ")
print(f" Converted to client timestamp is {selected_timestamp_client}; ")
print(f" Then roundtrip convert back to host:{selected_timestamp_host_roundtrip}, "
     f" And delta value from original host timestamp is {selected_timestamp_host_roundtrip - selected_timestamp_host}. This is mainly due to numerical errors. ")
```

### Multi-Device Query APIs

```python
print("======= Multi-VRS time mapping example: Query APIs ======")
rr.init("rerun_viz_multi_vrs_time_mapping")

# Set up sensor queue options in host VRS, only turn on RGB stream
host_deliver_options = host_data_provider.get_default_deliver_queued_options()
host_deliver_options.deactivate_stream_all()
rgb_stream_id = host_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-rgb")
host_deliver_options.activate_stream(rgb_stream_id)

# Select only a segment to plot
host_vrs_start_timestamp = host_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
host_segment_start = host_vrs_start_timestamp + int(20e9) # 20 seconds after start
host_segment_duration = int(5e9)
host_segment_end = host_segment_start + host_segment_duration
host_vrs_end_timestamp = host_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(time_domain = TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
host_deliver_options.set_truncate_first_device_time_ns(host_segment_start - host_vrs_start_timestamp)
host_deliver_options.set_truncate_last_device_time_ns(host_vrs_end_timestamp - host_segment_end)

# Plot RGB image data from both host and client
for sensor_data in host_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data(host_deliver_options):
    # ---------
    # Plotting in host.
    # Everything is done in DEVICE_TIME domain.
    # ---------
    host_image_data, host_image_record = sensor_data.image_data_and_record()

    # Set timestamps directly from host image record
    host_timestamp_ns = host_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", host_timestamp_ns)

    rr.log("rgb_image_in_host", rr.Image(host_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

    # ---------
    # Plotting in client.
    # All the query APIs are done in SUBGHZ domain.
    # ---------
    # Query the closest RGB image from client VRS
    client_image_data, client_image_record = client_data_provider.get_image_data_by_time_ns(
        stream_id = rgb_stream_id,
        time_ns = host_timestamp_ns,
        time_domain = TimeDomain.SUBGHZ,
        time_query_options = TimeQueryOptions.CLOSEST)

    # Still need to convert client's device time back to host's time,
    # because we want to log this image data on host's timeline in Rerun
    client_timestamp_ns = client_image_record.capture_timestamp_ns
    converted_client_timestamp_ns = client_data_provider.convert_from_device_time_to_synctime_ns(client_timestamp_ns, TimeSyncMode.SUBGHZ)
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", converted_client_timestamp_ns)

    # Plot client image
    rr.log("rgb_image_in_client", rr.Image(client_image_data.to_numpy_array()))

rr.notebook_show()
```
