website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/vio.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Using On-Device VIO Data
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 5: On-Device VIO data streams

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_5_on_device_vio.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

In Aria-Gen2 glasses, one of the key upgrade from Aria-Gen1 is the capability to run Machine Perception (MP) algorithms on the device during streaming / recording. Currently supported on-device MP algorithms include Eye-tracking, Hand-tracking, and VIO. These algorithm results are stored as separate data streams in the VRS file.

**VIO (Visual Inertial Odometry)** combines camera images and IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) data to estimate device pose and motion in real-time. VIO tracks the device's position, orientation, and velocity by performing visual tracking, IMU integration, sensor fusion, etc, making it the foundation for spatial tracking and understanding.

In Aria-Gen2 devices, the VIO algorithm are run on device to produce 2 types of tracking results as part of the VRS file: VIO and VIO High Frequency.
This tutorial focuses on demonstration of how to use the **on-device VIO and VIO_high_frequency** results.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to access on-device VIO and VIO_high_frequency data from VRS files
- How to visualize 3D trajectory from on-device VIO data.

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Complete Tutorial 2 (Device Calibration) to understand how to properly use calibration in Aria data.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)

# Query VIO data streams
vio_label = "vio"
vio_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(vio_label)
if vio_stream_id is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{vio_label} data stream does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid VIO data for this tutorial."
    )

# Query VIO_high_frequency data streams
vio_high_freq_label = "vio_high_frequency"
vio_high_freq_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(vio_high_freq_label)
if vio_high_freq_stream_id is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{vio_high_freq_label} data stream does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid VIO high frequency data for this tutorial."
    )

```

## On-Device VIO Data Stream

### Data Type: `FrontendOutput`

This a new data type introduced to store the results from the VIO system, containing the following fields:

| Field Name                    | Description                                |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `frontend_session_uid`        | Session identifier (resets on VIO restart) |
| `frame_id`                    | Frame set identifier                       |
| `capture_timestamp_ns`        | Center capture time in nanoseconds         |
| `unix_timestamp_ns`           | Unix timestamp in nanoseconds              |
| `status`                      | VIO status (VALID/INVALID)                 |
| `pose_quality`                | Pose quality (GOOD/BAD/UNKNOWN)            |
| `visual_tracking_quality`     | Visual-only tracking quality               |
| `online_calib`                | Online calibration estimates for SLAM cameras and IMUs  |
| `gravity_in_odometry`         | Gravity vector in odometry frame           |
| `transform_odometry_bodyimu`  | Body IMU's pose in odometry reference frame         |
| `transform_bodyimu_device`    | Transform from body IMU to device frame    |
| `linear_velocity_in_odometry` | Linear velocity in odometry frame in m/s         |
| `angular_velocity_in_bodyimu` | Angular velocity in body IMU frame in rad/s      |

Here, **body IMU** is the IMU that is picked as the reference for motion tracking. For Aria-Gen2' on-device VIO algorithm, this is often `imu-left`.

**Important Note**: Always check `status == VioStatus.VALID` and
`pose_quality == TrackingQuality.GOOD` for VIO data validity!

### Data Access API

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import VioStatus, TrackingQuality

print("=== VIO Data Sample ===")

# Find the first valid VIO data sample
num_vio_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(vio_stream_id)
first_valid_index = None
for idx in range(num_vio_samples):
    vio_data = vrs_data_provider.get_vio_data_by_index(vio_stream_id, idx)
    if (
        vio_data.status == VioStatus.VALID
        and vio_data.pose_quality == TrackingQuality.GOOD
    ):
        first_valid_index = idx
        break

if first_valid_index is not None:
    print("=" * 50)
    print(f"First VALID VIO Data Sample (Index: {first_valid_index})")
    print("=" * 50)

    # Session Information
    print(f"Session UID: {vio_data.frontend_session_uid}")
    print(f"Frame ID: {vio_data.frame_id}")

    # Timestamps
    print(f"Capture Time: {vio_data.capture_timestamp_ns} ns")
    print(f"Unix Time: {vio_data.unix_timestamp_ns} ns")

    # Quality Status
    print(f"Status: {vio_data.status}")
    print(f"Pose Quality: {vio_data.pose_quality}")
    print(f"Visual Quality: {vio_data.visual_tracking_quality}")

    # Transforms
    print(f"Transform Odometry → Body IMU:\n{vio_data.transform_odometry_bodyimu.to_matrix()}")
    print(f"Transform Body IMU → Device:\n{vio_data.transform_bodyimu_device.to_matrix()}")

    # Motion
    print(f"Linear Velocity: {vio_data.linear_velocity_in_odometry}")
    print(f"Angular Velocity: {vio_data.angular_velocity_in_bodyimu}")
    print(f"Gravity Vector: {vio_data.gravity_in_odometry}")
else:
    print("⚠️  No valid VIO sample found")

```

## On-Device VIO High Frequency Data Stream

**VIO High Frequency** results are generated directly from the on-device VIO results by performing IMU integration between VIO poses, hence provides a much higher data rate at approximately **800Hz**.

### Data Type: `OpenLoopTrajectoryPose`

The **VioHighFrequency** stream **re-uses** the `OpenLoopTrajectoryPose` data
structure [defined in MPS](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/mps/Trajectory.h).

| Field Name                        | Description                                             |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tracking_timestamp`              | Timestamp in device time domain, in microseconds        |
| `transform_odometry_device`       | Transformation from device to odometry coordinate frame, represented as a SE3 instance. |
| `device_linear_velocity_odometry` | Translational velocity of device in odometry frame, in m/s     |
| `angular_velocity_device`         | Angular velocity of device in device frame, in rad/s              |
| `quality_score`                   | Quality of pose estimation (higher = better)            |
| `gravity_odometry`                | Earth gravity vector in odometry frame                  |
| `session_uid`                     | Unique identifier for VIO tracking session              |

**Important Note**: Due to the high frequency nature of this data (~800Hz), consider
subsampling for visualization to maintain performance.

```python
print("=== VIO High-Frequency Data Sample ===")

# Find the first VIO high_frequency data sample with high quality value
num_vio_high_freq_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(vio_high_freq_stream_id)
first_valid_index = None
for idx in range(num_vio_samples):
    vio_high_freq_data = vrs_data_provider.get_vio_high_freq_data_by_index(vio_high_freq_stream_id, idx)
    if (
        vio_high_freq_data.quality_score > 0.5
    ):
        first_valid_index = idx
        break

if first_valid_index is not None:
    print("=" * 50)
    print(f"First VIO High Freq Data Sample with good quality score (Index: {first_valid_index})")
    print("=" * 50)

    # Timestamps, convert timedelta to nanoseconds
    capture_timestamp_ns = int(vio_high_freq_data.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e9)

    # Session Information
    print(f"Session UID: {vio_high_freq_data.session_uid}")

    # Timestamps
    print(f"Tracking Time: {capture_timestamp_ns} ns")

    # Quality
    print(f"Quality Score: {vio_high_freq_data.quality_score:.3f}")

    # Transform
    print(f"Transform Odometry → Device:\n{vio_high_freq_data.transform_odometry_device.to_matrix()}")

    # Motion
    print(f"Linear Velocity: {vio_high_freq_data.device_linear_velocity_odometry}")
    print(f"Angular Velocity: {vio_high_freq_data.angular_velocity_device}")
    print(f"Gravity Vector: {vio_high_freq_data.gravity_odometry}")

```

## Visualizing On-Device VIO trajectory

The following code snippets demonstrate how to visualize a VIO trajectory, along with glass frame + hand tracking results, in a 3D view.

```python
def plot_single_hand_3d(
    hand_joints_in_device, hand_label
):
    """
    A helper function to plot single hand data in 3D view
    """
    marker_color = [255,64,0] if hand_label == "left" else [255, 255, 0]

    hand_skeleton_3d = create_hand_skeleton_from_landmarks(hand_joints_in_device)
    rr.log(
        f"world/device/handtracking/{hand_label}/landmarks",
        rr.Points3D(
            positions=hand_joints_in_device,
            colors= marker_color,
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"world/device/handtracking/{hand_label}/hand_skeleton",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            hand_skeleton_3d,
            colors=[0, 255, 0],
            radii=3e-3,
        ),
    )


def plot_hand_pose_data_3d(hand_pose_data):
    """
    A helper function to plot hand pose data in 3D world view
    """
    # Clear the canvas (only if hand_tracking_label exists for this device version)
    rr.log(
        f"world/device/handtracking",
        rr.Clear.recursive(),
    )

    # Plot both hands
    if hand_pose_data.left_hand is not None:
        plot_single_hand_3d(
            hand_joints_in_device=hand_pose_data.left_hand.landmark_positions_device,
            hand_label="left",
        )
    if hand_pose_data.right_hand is not None:
        plot_single_hand_3d(
            hand_joints_in_device=hand_pose_data.right_hand.landmark_positions_device,
            hand_label="right",
        )
```

### 3D Trajectory Visualization

```python
import rerun as rr
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import SensorDataType, TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions
from projectaria_tools.utils.rerun_helpers import (
    create_hand_skeleton_from_landmarks,
    AriaGlassesOutline,
    ToTransform3D
)

print("\n=== Visualizing on-device VIO trajectory + HandTracking in 3D view ===")

rr.init("rerun_viz_vio_trajectory")
rr.notebook_show()

device_calib = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration()
handtracking_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("handtracking")

# Set up a data queue
deliver_options = vrs_data_provider.get_default_deliver_queued_options()
deliver_options.deactivate_stream_all()
deliver_options.activate_stream(vio_stream_id)

# Play for only 3 seconds
total_length_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) - vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
skip_begin_ns = int(15 * 1e9) # Skip 15 seconds
duration_ns = int(3 * 1e9) # 3 seconds
skip_end_ns = max(total_length_ns - skip_begin_ns - duration_ns, 0)
deliver_options.set_truncate_first_device_time_ns(skip_begin_ns)
deliver_options.set_truncate_last_device_time_ns(skip_end_ns)

# Plot VIO trajectory in 3D view.
# Need to keep a cache to store already-loaded trajectory
vio_traj_cached_full = []
for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data(deliver_options):
    # Convert sensor data to VIO data
    vio_data = sensor_data.vio_data()

    # Check VIO data validity, only plot for valid data
    if ( vio_data.status != VioStatus.VALID or vio_data.pose_quality != TrackingQuality.GOOD):
        print(f"VIO data is invalid for timestamp {sensor_data.get_time_ns(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)}")
        continue

    # Set timestamp
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", vio_data.capture_timestamp_ns)

    # Set and plot the Device pose for the current timestamp, as a RGB axis
    T_World_Device = (
        vio_data.transform_odometry_bodyimu @ vio_data.transform_bodyimu_device
    )
    rr.log(
        "world/device",
        ToTransform3D(
            T_World_Device,
            axis_length=0.05,
        ),
    )

    # Also plot Aria glass outline for visualization
    aria_glasses_point_outline = AriaGlassesOutline(
        device_calib, use_cad_calib=True
    )
    rr.log(
        "world/device/glasses_outline",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            aria_glasses_point_outline,
            colors=[200,200,200],
            radii=5e-4,
        ),
    )

    # Plot gravity direction vector
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_gravity",
        rr.Arrows3D(
            origins=[T_World_Device.translation()[0]],
            vectors=[
                vio_data.gravity_in_odometry * 1e-2
            ],  # length converted from 9.8 meter -> 10 cm
            colors=[101,67,33],
            radii=1.5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

    # Plot VIO trajectory that are cached so far
    vio_traj_cached_full.append(T_World_Device.translation()[0])
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_trajectory",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            vio_traj_cached_full,
            colors=[173, 216, 255],
            radii=1.5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

    # For visualization purpose, also plot the hand tracking results
    interpolated_hand_pose = vrs_data_provider.get_interpolated_hand_pose_data(handtracking_stream_id, vio_data.capture_timestamp_ns, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
    if interpolated_hand_pose is not None:
        plot_hand_pose_data_3d(hand_pose_data = interpolated_hand_pose)


```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add sample data links.
Summary:
This diff adds gen2 sample data link to the notebook and tutorials.

It also slightly changed how `notebook_show()` is called, it should be at the end of the cell block.

Reviewed By: kongchen1992

Differential Revision: D84948289

fbshipit-source-id: b0b91de7015a5882e343f30d34c857ffb261d174

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/pythontutorials/vio.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Using On-Device VIO Data
---

import TutorialButtons from '@site/src/components/TutorialButtons';

# Tutorial 5: On-Device VIO data streams

<TutorialButtons
  notebookUrl="https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/examples/Gen2/python_notebooks/Tutorial_5_on_device_vio.ipynb"
  colabDisabled={true}
/>

## Introduction

In Aria-Gen2 glasses, one of the key upgrade from Aria-Gen1 is the capability to run Machine Perception (MP) algorithms on the device during streaming / recording. Currently supported on-device MP algorithms include Eye-tracking, Hand-tracking, and VIO. These algorithm results are stored as separate data streams in the VRS file.

**VIO (Visual Inertial Odometry)** combines camera images and IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) data to estimate device pose and motion in real-time. VIO tracks the device's position, orientation, and velocity by performing visual tracking, IMU integration, sensor fusion, etc, making it the foundation for spatial tracking and understanding.

In Aria-Gen2 devices, the VIO algorithm are run on device to produce 2 types of tracking results as part of the VRS file: VIO and VIO High Frequency.
This tutorial focuses on demonstration of how to use the **on-device VIO and VIO_high_frequency** results.

**What you'll learn:**

- How to access on-device VIO and VIO_high_frequency data from VRS files
- How to visualize 3D trajectory from on-device VIO data.

**Prerequisites**
- Complete Tutorial 1 (VrsDataProvider Basics) to understand basic data provider concepts
- Complete Tutorial 2 (Device Calibration) to understand how to properly use calibration in Aria data.
- Download Aria Gen2 sample data from [link](https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=core&filename=aria_gen2_sample_data_1.vrs)


**Note on visualization:**
If visualization window is not showing up, this is due to `Rerun` lib's caching issue. Just rerun the specific code cell.

```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider

# Load local VRS file
vrs_file_path = "path/to/your/recording.vrs"
vrs_data_provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrs_file_path)

# Query VIO data streams
vio_label = "vio"
vio_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(vio_label)
if vio_stream_id is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{vio_label} data stream does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid VIO data for this tutorial."
    )

# Query VIO_high_frequency data streams
vio_high_freq_label = "vio_high_frequency"
vio_high_freq_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label(vio_high_freq_label)
if vio_high_freq_stream_id is None:
    raise RuntimeError(
        f"{vio_high_freq_label} data stream does not exist! Please use a VRS that contains valid VIO high frequency data for this tutorial."
    )

```

## On-Device VIO Data Stream

### Data Type: `FrontendOutput`

This a new data type introduced to store the results from the VIO system, containing the following fields:

| Field Name                    | Description                                |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `frontend_session_uid`        | Session identifier (resets on VIO restart) |
| `frame_id`                    | Frame set identifier                       |
| `capture_timestamp_ns`        | Center capture time in nanoseconds         |
| `unix_timestamp_ns`           | Unix timestamp in nanoseconds              |
| `status`                      | VIO status (VALID/INVALID)                 |
| `pose_quality`                | Pose quality (GOOD/BAD/UNKNOWN)            |
| `visual_tracking_quality`     | Visual-only tracking quality               |
| `online_calib`                | Online calibration estimates for SLAM cameras and IMUs  |
| `gravity_in_odometry`         | Gravity vector in odometry frame           |
| `transform_odometry_bodyimu`  | Body IMU's pose in odometry reference frame         |
| `transform_bodyimu_device`    | Transform from body IMU to device frame    |
| `linear_velocity_in_odometry` | Linear velocity in odometry frame in m/s         |
| `angular_velocity_in_bodyimu` | Angular velocity in body IMU frame in rad/s      |

Here, **body IMU** is the IMU that is picked as the reference for motion tracking. For Aria-Gen2' on-device VIO algorithm, this is often `imu-left`.

**Important Note**: Always check `status == VioStatus.VALID` and
`pose_quality == TrackingQuality.GOOD` for VIO data validity!

### Data Access API

```python
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import VioStatus, TrackingQuality

print("=== VIO Data Sample ===")

# Find the first valid VIO data sample
num_vio_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(vio_stream_id)
first_valid_index = None
for idx in range(num_vio_samples):
    vio_data = vrs_data_provider.get_vio_data_by_index(vio_stream_id, idx)
    if (
        vio_data.status == VioStatus.VALID
        and vio_data.pose_quality == TrackingQuality.GOOD
    ):
        first_valid_index = idx
        break

if first_valid_index is not None:
    print("=" * 50)
    print(f"First VALID VIO Data Sample (Index: {first_valid_index})")
    print("=" * 50)

    # Session Information
    print(f"Session UID: {vio_data.frontend_session_uid}")
    print(f"Frame ID: {vio_data.frame_id}")

    # Timestamps
    print(f"Capture Time: {vio_data.capture_timestamp_ns} ns")
    print(f"Unix Time: {vio_data.unix_timestamp_ns} ns")

    # Quality Status
    print(f"Status: {vio_data.status}")
    print(f"Pose Quality: {vio_data.pose_quality}")
    print(f"Visual Quality: {vio_data.visual_tracking_quality}")

    # Transforms
    print(f"Transform Odometry → Body IMU:\n{vio_data.transform_odometry_bodyimu.to_matrix()}")
    print(f"Transform Body IMU → Device:\n{vio_data.transform_bodyimu_device.to_matrix()}")

    # Motion
    print(f"Linear Velocity: {vio_data.linear_velocity_in_odometry}")
    print(f"Angular Velocity: {vio_data.angular_velocity_in_bodyimu}")
    print(f"Gravity Vector: {vio_data.gravity_in_odometry}")
else:
    print("⚠️  No valid VIO sample found")

```

## On-Device VIO High Frequency Data Stream

**VIO High Frequency** results are generated directly from the on-device VIO results by performing IMU integration between VIO poses, hence provides a much higher data rate at approximately **800Hz**.

### Data Type: `OpenLoopTrajectoryPose`

The **VioHighFrequency** stream **re-uses** the `OpenLoopTrajectoryPose` data
structure [defined in MPS](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/mps/Trajectory.h).

| Field Name                        | Description                                             |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tracking_timestamp`              | Timestamp in device time domain, in microseconds        |
| `transform_odometry_device`       | Transformation from device to odometry coordinate frame, represented as a SE3 instance. |
| `device_linear_velocity_odometry` | Translational velocity of device in odometry frame, in m/s     |
| `angular_velocity_device`         | Angular velocity of device in device frame, in rad/s              |
| `quality_score`                   | Quality of pose estimation (higher = better)            |
| `gravity_odometry`                | Earth gravity vector in odometry frame                  |
| `session_uid`                     | Unique identifier for VIO tracking session              |

**Important Note**: Due to the high frequency nature of this data (~800Hz), consider
subsampling for visualization to maintain performance.

```python
print("=== VIO High-Frequency Data Sample ===")

# Find the first VIO high_frequency data sample with high quality value
num_vio_high_freq_samples = vrs_data_provider.get_num_data(vio_high_freq_stream_id)
first_valid_index = None
for idx in range(num_vio_samples):
    vio_high_freq_data = vrs_data_provider.get_vio_high_freq_data_by_index(vio_high_freq_stream_id, idx)
    if (
        vio_high_freq_data.quality_score > 0.5
    ):
        first_valid_index = idx
        break

if first_valid_index is not None:
    print("=" * 50)
    print(f"First VIO High Freq Data Sample with good quality score (Index: {first_valid_index})")
    print("=" * 50)

    # Timestamps, convert timedelta to nanoseconds
    capture_timestamp_ns = int(vio_high_freq_data.tracking_timestamp.total_seconds() * 1e9)

    # Session Information
    print(f"Session UID: {vio_high_freq_data.session_uid}")

    # Timestamps
    print(f"Tracking Time: {capture_timestamp_ns} ns")

    # Quality
    print(f"Quality Score: {vio_high_freq_data.quality_score:.3f}")

    # Transform
    print(f"Transform Odometry → Device:\n{vio_high_freq_data.transform_odometry_device.to_matrix()}")

    # Motion
    print(f"Linear Velocity: {vio_high_freq_data.device_linear_velocity_odometry}")
    print(f"Angular Velocity: {vio_high_freq_data.angular_velocity_device}")
    print(f"Gravity Vector: {vio_high_freq_data.gravity_odometry}")

```

## Visualizing On-Device VIO trajectory

The following code snippets demonstrate how to visualize a VIO trajectory, along with glass frame + hand tracking results, in a 3D view.

```python
def plot_single_hand_3d(
    hand_joints_in_device, hand_label
):
    """
    A helper function to plot single hand data in 3D view
    """
    marker_color = [255,64,0] if hand_label == "left" else [255, 255, 0]

    hand_skeleton_3d = create_hand_skeleton_from_landmarks(hand_joints_in_device)
    rr.log(
        f"world/device/handtracking/{hand_label}/landmarks",
        rr.Points3D(
            positions=hand_joints_in_device,
            colors= marker_color,
            radii=5e-3,
        ),
    )
    rr.log(
        f"world/device/handtracking/{hand_label}/hand_skeleton",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            hand_skeleton_3d,
            colors=[0, 255, 0],
            radii=3e-3,
        ),
    )


def plot_hand_pose_data_3d(hand_pose_data):
    """
    A helper function to plot hand pose data in 3D world view
    """
    # Clear the canvas (only if hand_tracking_label exists for this device version)
    rr.log(
        f"world/device/handtracking",
        rr.Clear.recursive(),
    )

    # Plot both hands
    if hand_pose_data.left_hand is not None:
        plot_single_hand_3d(
            hand_joints_in_device=hand_pose_data.left_hand.landmark_positions_device,
            hand_label="left",
        )
    if hand_pose_data.right_hand is not None:
        plot_single_hand_3d(
            hand_joints_in_device=hand_pose_data.right_hand.landmark_positions_device,
            hand_label="right",
        )
```

### 3D Trajectory Visualization

```python
import rerun as rr
from projectaria_tools.core.sensor_data import SensorDataType, TimeDomain, TimeQueryOptions
from projectaria_tools.utils.rerun_helpers import (
    create_hand_skeleton_from_landmarks,
    AriaGlassesOutline,
    ToTransform3D
)

print("\n=== Visualizing on-device VIO trajectory + HandTracking in 3D view ===")

rr.init("rerun_viz_vio_trajectory")

device_calib = vrs_data_provider.get_device_calibration()
handtracking_stream_id = vrs_data_provider.get_stream_id_from_label("handtracking")

# Set up a data queue
deliver_options = vrs_data_provider.get_default_deliver_queued_options()
deliver_options.deactivate_stream_all()
deliver_options.activate_stream(vio_stream_id)

# Play for only 3 seconds
total_length_ns = vrs_data_provider.get_last_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME) - vrs_data_provider.get_first_time_ns_all_streams(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
skip_begin_ns = int(15 * 1e9) # Skip 15 seconds
duration_ns = int(3 * 1e9) # 3 seconds
skip_end_ns = max(total_length_ns - skip_begin_ns - duration_ns, 0)
deliver_options.set_truncate_first_device_time_ns(skip_begin_ns)
deliver_options.set_truncate_last_device_time_ns(skip_end_ns)

# Plot VIO trajectory in 3D view.
# Need to keep a cache to store already-loaded trajectory
vio_traj_cached_full = []
for sensor_data in vrs_data_provider.deliver_queued_sensor_data(deliver_options):
    # Convert sensor data to VIO data
    vio_data = sensor_data.vio_data()

    # Check VIO data validity, only plot for valid data
    if ( vio_data.status != VioStatus.VALID or vio_data.pose_quality != TrackingQuality.GOOD):
        print(f"VIO data is invalid for timestamp {sensor_data.get_time_ns(TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)}")
        continue

    # Set timestamp
    rr.set_time_nanos("device_time", vio_data.capture_timestamp_ns)

    # Set and plot the Device pose for the current timestamp, as a RGB axis
    T_World_Device = (
        vio_data.transform_odometry_bodyimu @ vio_data.transform_bodyimu_device
    )
    rr.log(
        "world/device",
        ToTransform3D(
            T_World_Device,
            axis_length=0.05,
        ),
    )

    # Also plot Aria glass outline for visualization
    aria_glasses_point_outline = AriaGlassesOutline(
        device_calib, use_cad_calib=True
    )
    rr.log(
        "world/device/glasses_outline",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            aria_glasses_point_outline,
            colors=[200,200,200],
            radii=5e-4,
        ),
    )

    # Plot gravity direction vector
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_gravity",
        rr.Arrows3D(
            origins=[T_World_Device.translation()[0]],
            vectors=[
                vio_data.gravity_in_odometry * 1e-2
            ],  # length converted from 9.8 meter -> 10 cm
            colors=[101,67,33],
            radii=1.5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

    # Plot VIO trajectory that are cached so far
    vio_traj_cached_full.append(T_World_Device.translation()[0])
    rr.log(
        "world/vio_trajectory",
        rr.LineStrips3D(
            vio_traj_cached_full,
            colors=[173, 216, 255],
            radii=1.5e-3,
        ),
        static=False,
    )

    # For visualization purpose, also plot the hand tracking results
    interpolated_hand_pose = vrs_data_provider.get_interpolated_hand_pose_data(handtracking_stream_id, vio_data.capture_timestamp_ns, TimeDomain.DEVICE_TIME)
    if interpolated_hand_pose is not None:
        plot_hand_pose_data_3d(hand_pose_data = interpolated_hand_pose)

rr.notebook_show()

```
