website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/advanced-installation.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Advanced Installation From Source Code
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page covers advanced installation options to build Project Aria Tools from source code, including:
- [Pre-requisites: install dependencies](#prerequisites)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, without visualization](#cmake_no_viz)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, with visualization](#cmake_with_viz)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code](#python_from_source)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code with type hinting](#python_from_source_type_hint)


## Pre-requisites: install dependencies {#prerequisites}
Before proceed to any of the advanced installation steps, please follow the command in [the installer widget on Quick Start page](/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/installation.mdx#installing) to pull the correct branch from Github.

Then install the following third party dependency lib:
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="ubuntu" label="Ubuntu">
```
```bash
# Deactivate CONDA / MAMBA virtual environment you may be in! This is IMPORTANT!
conda deactivate

# Install build essentials
sudo apt install build-essential git cmake

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo apt install libgtest-dev libgmock-dev libgoogle-glog-dev libfmt-dev \
liblz4-dev libzstd-dev libxxhash-dev libboost-all-dev libpng-dev \
libjpeg-turbo8-dev libturbojpeg0-dev libglew-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libeigen3-dev \
libepoxy-dev libopus-dev
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fedora" label="Fedora">
```
```bash
# Deactivate CONDA / MAMBA virtual environment you may be in! This is IMPORTANT!
conda deactivate

# Install build essentials
sudo dnf install -y git cmake gcc gcc-c++ make

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo dnf install -y gtest-devel gmock-devel glog-devel fmt-devel lz4-devel \
libzstd-devel xxhash-devel boost-devel libpng-devel libjpeg-turbo-devel \
turbojpeg-devel glew-devel eigen3 libepoxy-devel opus-devel
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
```
If you don't have brew on your mac, here is the [_setup link_](https://brew.sh/).

```bash
# Deactivate CONDA / MAMBA virtual environment you may be in! This is IMPORTANT!
conda deactivate

# Install build essentials with Homebrew
xcode-select --install

brew install git cmake eigen python3 boost fmt googletest \
glog lz4 zstd xxhash libpng jpeg-turbo glew libepoxy opus

```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

**Install FFmpeg**:
Aria Gen2 image data is encoded with H.265 codec.
`projectaria_tools` relies on the decoding functions in [the `vrs` library](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vrs) to decode H.265 image data.
Here, we will build `FFmpeg` from source code with the exact same script from the `vrs` library:
```bash
# Set this to the root directory where you pulled the codebase
SRC_DIR=${HOME}/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools/
cd ${SRC_DIR}

# Remove previously installed ffmpeg
rm -rf ~/vrs_third_party_libs/ffmpeg/

# ffmpeg will be installed under ~/vrs_third_party_libs/ffmpeg/
./build_third_party_libs/build_ffmpeg_linuxunix.sh
```

## Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, without visualization {#cmake_no_viz}
```bash
cd ${SRC_DIR}
cmake -B ./build/ -S ./ -DCMAKE_POLICY_VERSION_MINIMUM=3.5
cd build/
make -j8
```

## Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, with visualization {#cmake_with_viz}
The C++ visualization binaries in `projectaria_tools` are built using [the Pangolin library](https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin).
Therefore, you need to install `Pangolin` as a system library first.
```bash
cd /tmp

git clone --recursive https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin.git

mkdir -p Pangolin_Build && cd Pangolin_Build

cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_TOOLS=OFF -DBUILD_PANGOLIN_PYTHON=OFF \
-DBUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF ../Pangolin/

make -j8

sudo make install

# For Linux systems, you may need to run the following command to update the dynamic linker cache so the Pangolin library can be found
sudo ldconfig
```

Then you can build `projectaria_tools` in CMake:
```bash
cd ${SRC_DIR}
cmake -B ./build/ -S ./ -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_TOOLS=ON -DCMAKE_POLICY_VERSION_MINIMUM=3.5
cd build/
make -j8
```


## Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code {#python_from_source}
First, make sure you have [installed the dependencies libraries](#prerequisites) as pre-requisites.
You can build a local version of `projectaria-tools` Python package by doing the following.
We strongly recommend you build this within a Python virtual environment.
```bash
# Go to your check-out source code directory
cd ${SRC_DIR}
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip

python3 -m pip install .
```

## Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code with type hinting {#python_from_source_type_hint}
1.
2. Generate Python type hinting with generate_stubs.py script once projectaria_tools package is installed
3. Install type hinting package for projectaria_tools
```bash
# Install pybind11-stubgen to generate the stub files
python3 -m pip install pybind11-stubgen==1.1

# Generate stubs
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools
python3 generate_stubs.py
cp -r projectaria_tools-stubs/projectaria_tools .

# Install projectaria-tools python package from source code.
python3 -m pip install .
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Fixing missing entry
Summary: Fixing a missing entry in the documentation on how to generate the python stubs

Reviewed By: PiotrBrzyski

Differential Revision: D85351311

fbshipit-source-id: dd9914ae5492e318d431ff5c357de11845e16d5a

website/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/advanced-installation.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Advanced Installation From Source Code
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This page covers advanced installation options to build Project Aria Tools from source code, including:
- [Pre-requisites: install dependencies](#prerequisites)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, without visualization](#cmake_no_viz)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, with visualization](#cmake_with_viz)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code](#python_from_source)
- [Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code with type hinting](#python_from_source_type_hint)


## Pre-requisites: install dependencies {#prerequisites}
Before proceed to any of the advanced installation steps, please follow the command in [the installer widget on Quick Start page](/docs-research-tools/projectariatools/installation.mdx#installing) to pull the correct branch from Github.

Then install the following third party dependency lib:
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="ubuntu" label="Ubuntu">
```
```bash
# Deactivate CONDA / MAMBA virtual environment you may be in! This is IMPORTANT!
conda deactivate

# Install build essentials
sudo apt install build-essential git cmake

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo apt install libgtest-dev libgmock-dev libgoogle-glog-dev libfmt-dev \
liblz4-dev libzstd-dev libxxhash-dev libboost-all-dev libpng-dev \
libjpeg-turbo8-dev libturbojpeg0-dev libglew-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libeigen3-dev \
libepoxy-dev libopus-dev
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fedora" label="Fedora">
```
```bash
# Deactivate CONDA / MAMBA virtual environment you may be in! This is IMPORTANT!
conda deactivate

# Install build essentials
sudo dnf install -y git cmake gcc gcc-c++ make

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo dnf install -y gtest-devel gmock-devel glog-devel fmt-devel lz4-devel \
libzstd-devel xxhash-devel boost-devel libpng-devel libjpeg-turbo-devel \
turbojpeg-devel glew-devel eigen3 libepoxy-devel opus-devel
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
```
If you don't have brew on your mac, here is the [_setup link_](https://brew.sh/).

```bash
# Deactivate CONDA / MAMBA virtual environment you may be in! This is IMPORTANT!
conda deactivate

# Install build essentials with Homebrew
xcode-select --install

brew install git cmake eigen python3 boost fmt googletest \
glog lz4 zstd xxhash libpng jpeg-turbo glew libepoxy opus

```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

**Install FFmpeg**:
Aria Gen2 image data is encoded with H.265 codec.
`projectaria_tools` relies on the decoding functions in [the `vrs` library](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vrs) to decode H.265 image data.
Here, we will build `FFmpeg` from source code with the exact same script from the `vrs` library:
```bash
# Set this to the root directory where you pulled the codebase
SRC_DIR=${HOME}/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools/
cd ${SRC_DIR}

# Remove previously installed ffmpeg
rm -rf ~/vrs_third_party_libs/ffmpeg/

# ffmpeg will be installed under ~/vrs_third_party_libs/ffmpeg/
./build_third_party_libs/build_ffmpeg_linuxunix.sh
```

## Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, without visualization {#cmake_no_viz}
```bash
cd ${SRC_DIR}
cmake -B ./build/ -S ./ -DCMAKE_POLICY_VERSION_MINIMUM=3.5
cd build/
make -j8
```

## Build `projectaria_tools` lib using CMake, with visualization {#cmake_with_viz}
The C++ visualization binaries in `projectaria_tools` are built using [the Pangolin library](https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin).
Therefore, you need to install `Pangolin` as a system library first.
```bash
cd /tmp

git clone --recursive https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin.git

mkdir -p Pangolin_Build && cd Pangolin_Build

cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_TOOLS=OFF -DBUILD_PANGOLIN_PYTHON=OFF \
-DBUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF ../Pangolin/

make -j8

sudo make install

# For Linux systems, you may need to run the following command to update the dynamic linker cache so the Pangolin library can be found
sudo ldconfig
```

Then you can build `projectaria_tools` in CMake:
```bash
cd ${SRC_DIR}
cmake -B ./build/ -S ./ -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_TOOLS=ON -DCMAKE_POLICY_VERSION_MINIMUM=3.5
cd build/
make -j8
```


## Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code {#python_from_source}
First, make sure you have [installed the dependencies libraries](#prerequisites) as pre-requisites.
You can build a local version of `projectaria-tools` Python package by doing the following.
We strongly recommend you build this within a Python virtual environment.
```bash
# Go to your check-out source code directory
cd ${SRC_DIR}
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip

python3 -m pip install .
```

## Build `projectaria_tools` Python package from source code with type hinting {#python_from_source_type_hint}
1. Install pybind11-stubgen to generate the stub files
2. Generate Python type hinting with generate_stubs.py script once projectaria_tools package is installed
3. Install type hinting package for projectaria_tools
```bash
# Install pybind11-stubgen to generate the stub files
python3 -m pip install pybind11-stubgen==1.1

# Generate stubs
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools
python3 generate_stubs.py
cp -r projectaria_tools-stubs/projectaria_tools .

# Install projectaria-tools python package from source code.
python3 -m pip install .
```
