website/docs/ARK/glasses_manual/profile_guide.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Recording Profile Guide
---

# Project Aria Glasses Recording Profile Guide

## Overview

This page provides an overview of Project Aria sensor recording profiles that are commonly used when collecting data with a Project Aria device, as well as the recording profiles that work with Machine Perception Services (MPS).

Go to the [Recording Profiles](tech_spec/recording_profiles.mdx) in Technical Specifications for more detailed information about each profile.

Recording profiles enable researchers choosing which sensors to record with as well as what settings to use. Settings options include what camera resolution to use and whether the output is RAW (no encoding) or JPEG (compressed).

If you would like more details about any recording profile and have a Project Aria device:

1. Open the Mobile Companion App and select **New Recording**
2. Select **Profile** and scroll down to see the sensor configuration


## General Guidance

These are some sensor profiles researchers have found useful for particular kinds of research. Check recording profiles on your Mobile Companion App for more details.

### If you’re not sure what you want

Profile 10 is interesting to explore, it gathers data with all sensors and the RGB Camera records at 10 fps. All sensor data is useful for exploring multimodal ML models.

If you need high RGB Resolution (2880x2880 rather than 1408x1408), and 1FPS is sufficient shutter speed, use Profile 0.

### If you're streaming data

While you can use any recording profile when streaming, we recommend only using Profiles 12 and 18, which are optimized for streaming.

### If you need a high frame rate

Use profiles 2, 9 or 15, depending on whether you want EyeTracking or GPS. Profile 2 does not have ET, profile 15 does not have GPS.

### If your research focuses on audio

Try profiles 4, 7 (no SLAM) or profile 10.

### If your research focuses on EyeTracking(ET)

Try profile 5 for high resolution ET recordings at 20fps.

### To avoid image pre-processing

In situations where you want to use RAW videos and skip the Image Sensor Processor (ISP) as much as possible, profile 7 is helpful.

Please note, because profile 7 delivers RAW image files, not JPEGs the data is 8x more costly to store. This profile also uses more energy while recording and may heat up faster than others.



## Recording Profiles That Support MPS

The table below shows which recording profiles have the necessary data to generate Trajectory or Eye Gaze data using MPS. More commonly used profiles are marked with bold text.


|Aria Recording Profile	|Description	|Traj	|ET	|
|---	|---	|---	|---	|
|***Profile0***	|Default (all sensors)	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile2***	|RGB and SLAM high frame rate	|Yes	|No	|
|***Profile5***	|Eye tracking calibration (high res)	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile8	|Noise and Hearing mode	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile9***	|Contextualized AI	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile10***	|All sensors enabled with low fps	|Yes	|Yes	|
|Profile12	|Streaming mode with JPEG	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile14	|SLAM and ET high frame rate with RGB low frame rate	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile15***	|AR Replay	|Yes	|Yes	|
|Profile16	|Eye tracking high frame rate	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile17	|Streaming mode with H.265	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile18	|Streaming mode with JPEG and Spatial Audio	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile19	|Dual capture	|Yes	|No	|
|Profile21	|Noise and hearing mode with high RGB fps (RGB 15fps 2MP, SLAM 15fps VGA, ET 30fps QVGA; Audio on; GPS, Wi-Fi and BLE off)	|No	|Yes	|

Commit message:

{Documentation} March Release
Summary:
* March SW Release note
* New MPS Service - Hand Tracking
* Upgraded MPS Service - New Eye Gaze depth Model
* Updates to MPS Troubleshooting
* Updates to recording profiles
* Updates to Companion apps
* General Improvements

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D55041888

fbshipit-source-id: 448bc12273eb681b781e46e5a1b8b87f2b4e6ea5

website/docs/ARK/glasses_manual/profile_guide.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Recording Profile Guide
---

# Project Aria Glasses Recording Profile Guide

## Overview

This page provides an overview of Project Aria sensor recording profiles that are commonly used when collecting data with Project Aria glasses, as well as the recording profiles that work with Machine Perception Services (MPS).

Recording profiles enable researchers choosing which sensors to record with as well as what settings to use. Settings options include what camera resolution to use and whether the output is RAW (no encoding) or JPEG (compressed).

Go to [Recording Profiles](/tech_spec/recording_profiles.mdx) in Technical Specifications for more detailed information about each profile. Or, if you have a Project Aria glasses:

1. Open the Mobile Companion App and select **New Recording Session**
2. Select the existing recording profile (or **Choose Profile** if you have not set a default recording profile)
3. Select **More Info** in the top right corner


## General Guidance

These are some sensor profiles researchers have found useful for particular kinds of research. Check recording profiles on your Mobile Companion App for more details.

### If you’re not sure what you want

Profile 10 is interesting to explore, it gathers data with all sensors and the RGB Camera records at 10 fps. All sensor data is useful for exploring multimodal ML models.

If you need high RGB Resolution (2880x2880 rather than 1408x1408), and 1FPS is sufficient shutter speed, use Profile 0.

### If you're streaming data

While you can use any recording profile when streaming, we recommend only using Profiles 12 and 18, which are optimized for streaming.

### If you need a high frame rate

Use profiles 2, 9 or 15, depending on whether you want EyeTracking or GPS. Profile 2 does not have ET, profile 15 does not have GPS.

### If your research focuses on audio

Try profiles 4, 7 (no SLAM) or profile 10.

### To avoid image pre-processing

In situations where you want to use RAW videos and skip the Image Sensor Processor (ISP) as much as possible, profile 7 is helpful.

Please note, because profile 7 delivers RAW image files, not JPEGs the data is 8x more costly to store. This profile also uses more energy while recording and may heat up faster than others.

### Long duration recordings

Profiles 20 and 26 are optimized for 5+ recording hours. Profile 29 is optimized for recording times over 15 hours and uses JPEG decimation to provide 0.1FPS RGB data.

## Recording Profiles That Support MPS

The table below shows which recording profiles have the necessary data to generate Trajectory or Eye Gaze data using MPS. More commonly used profiles are marked with bold text.


|Aria Recording Profile	|Description	|SLAM or Hand Tracking	|Eye Tracking	|
|---	|---	|---	|---	|
|***Profile0***	|Default (all sensors)	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile2***	|RGB and SLAM high frame rate	|Yes	|No	|
|***Profile5***	|Eye tracking calibration (high res)	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile8	|Noise and Hearing mode	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile9***	|Contextualized AI	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile10***	|All sensors enabled with low fps	|Yes	|Yes	|
|Profile12	|Streaming mode with JPEG	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile14	|SLAM and ET high frame rate with RGB low frame rate	|Yes	|Yes	|
|***Profile15***	|AR Replay	|Yes	|Yes	|
|Profile16	|Eye tracking high frame rate	|No	|Yes	|
|Profile18	|Streaming mode with JPEG and Spatial Audio	|Yes	|Yes	|
|Profile19	|Dual capture	|Yes	|No	|
|Profile21	|Noise and hearing mode with high RGB fps	|Yes	|Yes	|
|Profile22  |High RGB frame rate and max audio exposure | Yes | Yes |
|***Profile23***  |High RGB frame rate with low SLAM and ET frame rate | Yes | Yes |
|Profile24  |High resolution and frame rate RGB | Yes | No |
|Profile25  |Wrist Tracking with SLAM (Aria with wristband) | Yes | No |
|Profile27  |USB only streaming mode | Yes | Yes |
|Profile28  |AR replay with high ET frame rate | Yes | Yes |
