website/docs/ARK/about_ARK.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: About the Aria Research Kit
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Aria Research Kit

The Aria Research Kit (ARK) provides Aria glasses, services and tools to enable researchers to gather and process their own Aria data. Go to [Aria Research Kit intro page](https://www.projectaria.com/research-kit/) at [projectaria.com](https://www.projectaria.com/) to find out more, or to apply to become a research partner.

The instructions in this section will only be useful if you have access to the ARK.


![Project Aria glasses and Mobile Companion app](/img/ARK/aria_app_glasses.png)

Through the ARK, researchers can:
* Use Aria glasses to record and stream egocentric data
* Generate derived data through [Machine Perception Services](/docs/ARK/mps)
* Use our [Client SDK and CLI](/docs/ARK/sdk) to directly interface with Aria glasses


## If you just received your Aria glasses
We suggest the following steps:
* Go to the [Quickstart guide](/docs/ARK/ARK_quickstart) to get set up
* [Join the Academic Partners Workplace Group](/docs/ARK/workplacegroup)
* Join the Project Aria Discord
* If you have any difficulties getting set up, please contact ariaops@meta.com or check out our [Support page](/support.mdx)


## Mobile Companion App requirements

To be able to use Aria glasses you will need to use the [Aria Mobile Companion app](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app).


```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="android" label="Android" default>
```

If you're using Android, your mobile device will need:
- Android OS version 10 or above installed
- ARM64 processor preferred
- (Optional) ARCore Depth API (https://developers.google.com/ar/devices) support needed for [eye-tracking calibration](mps/eye_gaze_calibration.mdx)
- 64-bit is preferred, although 32-bit is supported

Go to the [ARK SW Downloads and Updates page](/docs/ARK/ark_downloads) to get this software.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="ios" label="iOS">
```
If you're using iOS:
- OS version must be iOS 14 or above
- (Optional) TrueDepth camera (iPhone X or later) needed for [eye-tracking calibration](mps/eye_gaze_calibration.mdx)
- On your phone, [follow this invitation link](https://testflight.apple.com/join/G9sm51a8) to download the app from TestFlight

Go to the [ARK SW Downloads and Updates page](/docs/ARK/ark_downloads) for more information about downloading or updating software.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Other requirements (optional software)

### Desktop Companion App
To be able to request Machine Perception Services or stream data, you will need to use the [Desktop Companion App](/docs/ARK/desktop_companion_app).

Go to the [ARK SW Downloads and Updates page](/docs/ARK/ark_downloads) to get this software.

* Desktop Companion App runs on the following platforms:
    * MacOS Big Sur 11.3+, both Intel and Apple Silicon
    * Windows 10 x86_64 with DirectX (or OpenGL but the latest drivers should be installed)
    * Windows 11 may work, but is not actively supported at this time
    * Linux, as a debian package for Ubuntu, 22.04 LTS version. The app was only tested for that specific version under Gnome 42.5 and X11 (X Server) as well as Wayland. Any other debian distribution (Ubuntu 22.04 fork such as Kubuntu, Mint etc.) or environment may or may not work.

### Project Aria Tools
Project Aria Tools is open source tooling for working with Aria data, go to [Data Utilities](/docs/data_utilities) for more details.

Project Aria Tools and [VRS tooling](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vrs) are not available on Windows at this time. The codebase has been tested on the following platforms:
- Fedora 36, 37, 38 recommended
- Ubuntu focal (20.04 LTS) and jammy (22.04 LTS)
- Mac Intel or Mac ARM-based (M1)
    - Mac Big Sur or newer


### Project Aria Client SDK and CLI
Through the Client SDK and CLI you can directly interact with Aria glasses and stream data from the glasses to a computer. The codebase has been tested on the following platforms:

- Fedora 36 or newer
- Ubuntu jammy (22.04) or newer
- Mac Intel or Mac ARM-based (M1)
  - Mac Big Sur or newer

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor Update
Summary: Specified that Project Aria Tools and Client SDK  are only supported on x64 Linux distributions

Reviewed By: seanwarren-meta

Differential Revision: D53203449

fbshipit-source-id: 2b35d23ebf882fa43cd56f8252dcffc2a59946b6

website/docs/ARK/about_ARK.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: About the Aria Research Kit
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Aria Research Kit

The Aria Research Kit (ARK) provides Aria glasses, services and tools to enable researchers to gather and process their own Aria data. Go to [Aria Research Kit intro page](https://www.projectaria.com/research-kit/) at [projectaria.com](https://www.projectaria.com/) to find out more, or to apply to become a research partner.

The instructions in this section will only be useful if you have access to the ARK.


![Project Aria glasses and Mobile Companion app](/img/ARK/aria_app_glasses.png)

Through the ARK, researchers can:
* Use Aria glasses to record and stream egocentric data
* Generate derived data through [Machine Perception Services](/docs/ARK/mps)
* Use our [Client SDK and CLI](/docs/ARK/sdk) to directly interface with Aria glasses


## If you just received your Aria glasses
We suggest the following steps:
* Go to the [Quickstart guide](/docs/ARK/ARK_quickstart) to get set up
* [Join the Academic Partners Workplace Group](/docs/ARK/workplacegroup)
* Join the Project Aria Discord
* If you have any difficulties getting set up, please contact ariaops@meta.com or check out our [Support page](/support.mdx)


## Mobile Companion App requirements

To be able to use Aria glasses you will need to use the [Aria Mobile Companion app](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app).


```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="android" label="Android" default>
```

If you're using Android, your mobile device will need:
- Android OS version 10 or above installed
- ARM64 processor preferred
- (Optional) ARCore Depth API (https://developers.google.com/ar/devices) support needed for [eye-tracking calibration](mps/eye_gaze_calibration.mdx)
- 64-bit is preferred, although 32-bit is supported

Go to the [ARK SW Downloads and Updates page](/docs/ARK/ark_downloads) to get this software.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="ios" label="iOS">
```
If you're using iOS:
- OS version must be iOS 14 or above
- (Optional) TrueDepth camera (iPhone X or later) needed for [eye-tracking calibration](mps/eye_gaze_calibration.mdx)
- On your phone, [follow this invitation link](https://testflight.apple.com/join/G9sm51a8) to download the app from TestFlight

Go to the [ARK SW Downloads and Updates page](/docs/ARK/ark_downloads) for more information about downloading or updating software.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Other requirements (optional software)

### Desktop Companion App
To be able to request Machine Perception Services or stream data, you will need to use the [Desktop Companion App](/docs/ARK/desktop_companion_app).

Go to the [ARK SW Downloads and Updates page](/docs/ARK/ark_downloads) to get this software.

* Desktop Companion App runs on the following platforms:
    * MacOS Big Sur 11.3+, both Intel and Apple Silicon
    * Windows 10 x86_64 with DirectX (or OpenGL but the latest drivers should be installed)
    * Windows 11 may work, but is not actively supported at this time
    * Linux, as a debian package for Ubuntu, 22.04 LTS version. The app was only tested for that specific version under Gnome 42.5 and X11 (X Server) as well as Wayland. Any other debian distribution (Ubuntu 22.04 fork such as Kubuntu, Mint etc.) or environment may or may not work.

### Project Aria Tools
Project Aria Tools is open source tooling for working with Aria data, go to [Data Utilities](/docs/data_utilities) for more details.

Project Aria Tools and [VRS tooling](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vrs) are not available on Windows at this time. The codebase is supported on the following platforms:

- x64 Linux distributions of:
  - Fedora 36, 37, 38
  - Ubuntu focal (20.04 LTS) and jammy (22.04 LTS)
- Mac Intel or Mac ARM-based (M1) with MacOS 11 (Big Sur) or newer


### Project Aria Client SDK and CLI
Through the Client SDK and CLI you can directly interact with Aria glasses and stream data from the glasses to a computer. The codebase is supported on the following platforms:

- x64 Linux distributions of:
  - Fedora 36 or newer
  - Ubuntu jammy (22.04) or newer
- Mac Intel or Mac ARM-based (M1) with MacOS 11 (Big Sur) or newer
