website/docs/ARK/ark_downloads.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 15
title: ARK SW Downloads
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ARK SW Downloads and Updates


The [Aria Research Kit (ARK)](about_ARK.mdx) provides the [Aria Mobile Companion app](mobile_companion_app.mdx) and [Desktop Companion app](desktop_companion_app.mdx) to researchers who use Project Aria glasses.

To be able to use Aria glasses you will need to use the Mobile Companion app. You only need to use the Desktop Companion app if you wish to request Machine Perceptions Services (MPS) on data you’ve collected.


## Mobile Companion App

The latest version is v150, go to [ARK Software Release Notes](sw_release_notes.mdx) to find out about the latest features.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="ios" label="iOS">
```

### iOS
The Aria Mobile Companion app is available on iOS as a beta app through TestFlight.

* On your phone, [follow this invitation link](https://testflight.apple.com/join/G9sm51a8) to download the app.

To update:
* Open the TestFlight app
* Next to the Aria app, select **Update**


```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="android" label="Android">
```

### Android
Follow one of these links on your Android device to download the app:

* Mobile Companion App APK v150 - [recommended (64-bit architecture)](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/android/Aria_v150_ARM64.apk)
* Mobile Companion App APK v150 - [for 32-bit architecture](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/android/Aria_v150_ARMV7.apk)

To update the app, download and install the latest version.

#### Installation troubleshooting

On Android, if you see an error message such as, “For security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source,” you’ll need to enable your web browser to install unknown apps.

![Aria Mobile Companion App install error message](/img/ARK/unknown_app_error.png)

1. Go to Settings → Apps & notifications → Advanced → Special app access → Install unknown apps.
2. Select the app (usually your internet browser) that you want to grant permission to install from unknown sources.
3. Select **Allow from this source**

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Desktop Companion App

The latest version is v37, go to [ARK Software Release Notes](/docs/ARK/sw_release_notes) to find out about the latest features. To update the app, download and install the latest version.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
```

### Aria For MacOS Installer (Intel & Apple Silicon)

1. [Download Aria's DMG installer](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/mac/Aria_v37.dmg)
2. Open the downloaded file
3. Drag and drop Aria.app to your Applications folder
4. Double clicking on Aria.app to launch the app

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">
```
### Aria For Windows Installer

1. [Download Aria's Windows installer](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/windows/Aria_v37.msi)
2. Open the installer and follow the instructions for the Aria Setup Wizard
    1. Sign the End-User License Agreement
    2. Select a Destination folder
3. Once the Aria Setup Wizard is complete you should see Aria as a shortcut on your desktop and under the Start Menu

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
```
### Aria For Linux Installer

:::caution Aria for Linux has only been tested on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS version.
It is important to note the app was only tested for that specific version under Gnome 42.5 and X11 (X Server) as well as Wayland. Any other debian-based distribution (Ubuntu 22.04 fork such as Kubuntu, Mint etc..) or any other desktop environment may or may not work.
:::

1. [Download Aria's Linux debian package](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/linux/Aria_v36.deb)
2. Right-click on the Deb file and select “Open With Other Application“.
3. Select “Software Install” and then “Select” at the top-right.
4. The Software Center will open up on the screen with information on the app you are installing.
5. Select **Install**

The app will then be visible through "Activities"

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```


## Are the Companion apps open source?

No, the Mobile and Desktop app are Meta Licensed Materials and are licensed by Meta to research partners via organizational or individual research agreements. Go to [projectaria.com](https://www.projectaria.com/research-kit/) to find out how to become a research partner.

This software is not part of Project Aria Tools, so it won’t be downloaded when you install [Project Aria Tools Data Utilities](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/data_utilities), which is open source and licensed under Apache 2.0.

Commit message:

{Documentation} March Release
Summary:
* March SW Release note
* New MPS Service - Hand Tracking
* Upgraded MPS Service - New Eye Gaze depth Model
* Updates to MPS Troubleshooting
* Updates to recording profiles
* Updates to Companion apps
* General Improvements

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D55041888

fbshipit-source-id: 448bc12273eb681b781e46e5a1b8b87f2b4e6ea5

website/docs/ARK/ark_downloads.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 15
title: ARK SW Downloads
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# ARK SW Downloads and Updates


The [Aria Research Kit (ARK)](about_ARK.mdx) provides the [Aria Mobile Companion app](mobile_companion_app.mdx) and [Desktop Companion app](desktop_companion_app.mdx) to researchers who use Project Aria glasses.

To be able to use Aria glasses you will need to use the Mobile Companion app. You only need to use the Desktop Companion app if you wish to request Machine Perceptions Services (MPS) on data you’ve collected.


## Mobile Companion App

The latest version is v155, go to [ARK Software Release Notes](sw_release_notes.mdx) to find out about the latest features.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="ios" label="iOS">
```

### iOS
The Aria Mobile Companion app is available on iOS as a beta app through TestFlight.

* On your phone, [follow this invitation link](https://testflight.apple.com/join/G9sm51a8) to download the app.

To update:
* Open the TestFlight app
* Next to the Aria app, select **Update**


```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="android" label="Android">
```

### Android
Follow one of these links on your Android device to download the app:

* Mobile Companion App APK v155 - [recommended (64-bit architecture)](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/android/Aria_v155_ARM64.apk)
* Mobile Companion App APK v155 - [for 32-bit architecture](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/android/Aria_v155_ARMV7.apk)

To update the app, download and install the latest version.

#### Installation troubleshooting

On Android, if you see an error message such as, “For security, your phone is not allowed to install unknown apps from this source,” you’ll need to enable your web browser to install unknown apps.

![Aria Mobile Companion App install error message](/img/ARK/unknown_app_error.png)

1. Go to Settings → Apps & notifications → Advanced → Special app access → Install unknown apps.
2. Select the app (usually your internet browser) that you want to grant permission to install from unknown sources.
3. Select **Allow from this source**

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Desktop Companion App

The latest version is v38, go to [ARK Software Release Notes](/docs/ARK/sw_release_notes) to find out about the latest features. To update the app, download and install the latest version.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
```

### Aria For MacOS Installer (Intel & Apple Silicon)

1. [Download Aria's DMG installer](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/mac/Aria_v38.dmg)
2. Open the downloaded file
3. Drag and drop Aria.app to your Applications folder
4. Double clicking on Aria.app to launch the app

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">
```
### Aria For Windows Installer

1. [Download Aria's Windows installer](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/windows/Aria_v38.msi)
2. Open the installer and follow the instructions for the Aria Setup Wizard
    1. Sign the End-User License Agreement
    2. Select a Destination folder
3. Once the Aria Setup Wizard is complete you should see Aria as a shortcut on your desktop and under the Start Menu

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
```
### Aria For Linux Installer

:::caution Aria for Linux has only been tested on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS version.
It is important to note the app was only tested for that specific version under Gnome 42.5 and X11 (X Server) as well as Wayland. Any other debian-based distribution (Ubuntu 22.04 fork such as Kubuntu, Mint etc..) or any other desktop environment may or may not work.
:::

1. [Download Aria's Linux debian package](https://foreign-service-public-assets.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/apps/linux/Aria_v36.deb)
    * v36 is the latest version for Linux, please use the [MPS CLI to](/ARK/mps/request_mps/mps_cli.mdx) request Hand Tracking MPS
2. Right-click on the Deb file and select “Open With Other Application“.
3. Select “Software Install” and then “Select” at the top-right.
4. The Software Center will open up on the screen with information on the app you are installing.
5. Select **Install**

The app will then be visible through "Activities"

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```


## Are the Companion apps open source?

No, the Mobile and Desktop app are Meta Licensed Materials and are licensed by Meta to research partners via organizational or individual research agreements. Go to [projectaria.com](https://www.projectaria.com/research-kit/) to find out how to become a research partner.

This software is not part of Project Aria Tools, so it won’t be downloaded when you install [Project Aria Tools Data Utilities](https://facebookresearch.github.io/projectaria_tools/docs/data_utilities), which is open source and licensed under Apache 2.0.
