website/docs/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_data_format.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Data Format
---

# AEA Data Format

The Aria Everyday Activities dataset contains multiple activity sequences for one to two Project Aria glasses users. We created recordings using [scripts](aea_scripts.mdx) to represent all day activities with always on sensing.

Each Aria glasses recording is stored as its own sequence with all data related to that recording self contained within that sequence folder. An example sequence folder would look like this:

```
loc1_script1_seq1_rec1
   ├── recording.vrs
   ├── metadata.json
   ├── speech.csv
   ├──  MPS
       ├── eye_gaze
           ├── general_eye_gaze.csv
           ├── summary.json
       ├── slam
           ├── closed_loop_trajectory.csv
           ├── open_loop_trajectory.csv
           ├── online_calibration.csv
           ├── semidense_observations.csv.gz
           ├── semidense_points.csv.gz
           ├── summary.json

```


## Speech to Text annotation

Speech to Text annotation provides text strings generated by Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) with timestamps and confidence rating. The ASR annotation used an in-house proprietary system. Similar results can be acquired via open-source ASR solutions.

Table 2: <em>`speech.csv` Structure</em>


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>startTime_ns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>endTime_ns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>written</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>confidence</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>54040
   </td>
   <td>55040
   </td>
   <td>I’m
   </td>
   <td>0.25608
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>72920
   </td>
   <td>73920
   </td>
   <td>looking
   </td>
   <td>0.84339
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



## Timestamps Mapping Data

Project Aria glasses and multi-view devices operating in proximity to each other (&lt;100m) can leverage [SMPTE timecode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMPTE_timecode) to receive a synchronized time clock with sub-millisecond accuracy.

The mapping between device time and timecode clock for each sequence is stored in the VRS file as a Time Domain Mapping Class. Go to [Timestamps in Aria VRS Files](/data_formats/aria_vrs/timestamps_in_aria_vrs.mdx) for more information about how Aria sensor data is timestamped.

To translate the local timestamp of an arbitrary piece of data to the timecode time domain, you can interpolate between device timestamps in the time domain mapping data. An implementation of this mechanism is already provided in [VrsDataProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h#L299-L309). To synchronize data from a secondary device, you can query that second VRS with this timecode time. This functionality is also already implemented in the VrsDataProvider class.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor Visualization Update
Summary:
* Add cross links to visualization tools
* Add Multi-SLAM details to AEA dataset

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D54391532

fbshipit-source-id: 66c255007e93dcbd8cefb186052f24591d510dcf

website/docs/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_data_format.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Data Format
---

# AEA Data Format

The Aria Everyday Activities dataset contains multiple activity sequences for one to two Project Aria glasses users. We created recordings using [scripts](aea_scripts.mdx) to represent all day activities with always on sensing.

Each Aria glasses recording is stored as its own sequence with all data related to that recording self contained within that sequence folder. An example sequence folder would look like this:

```
loc1_script1_seq1_rec1
   ├── recording.vrs
   ├── metadata.json
   ├── speech.csv
   ├──  MPS
       ├── eye_gaze
           ├── general_eye_gaze.csv
           ├── summary.json
       ├── slam
           ├── closed_loop_trajectory.csv
           ├── open_loop_trajectory.csv
           ├── online_calibration.csv
           ├── semidense_observations.csv.gz
           ├── semidense_points.csv.gz
           ├── summary.json

```

## SLAM output
The SLAM outputs were created in a shared coordinate frame. The [Multi-SLAM data format page](/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_multi_slam.mdx) contains more information about this output. Please note the file structure is slightly different (vrs_to_multi_slam.json is not necessary) compared to [MPS CLI](/ARK/mps/request_mps/mps_cli.mdx) Multi-SLAM requests, as the shared coordinate frame is organized by location.

## Speech to Text annotation

Speech to Text annotation provides text strings generated by Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) with timestamps and confidence rating. The ASR annotation used an in-house proprietary system. Similar results can be acquired via open-source ASR solutions.

Table 2: <em>`speech.csv` Structure</em>


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>startTime_ns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>endTime_ns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>written</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>confidence</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>54040
   </td>
   <td>55040
   </td>
   <td>I’m
   </td>
   <td>0.25608
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>72920
   </td>
   <td>73920
   </td>
   <td>looking
   </td>
   <td>0.84339
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



## Timestamps Mapping Data

Project Aria glasses and multi-view devices operating in proximity to each other (&lt;100m) can leverage [SMPTE timecode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMPTE_timecode) to receive a synchronized time clock with sub-millisecond accuracy.

The mapping between device time and timecode clock for each sequence is stored in the VRS file as a Time Domain Mapping Class. Go to [Timestamps in Aria VRS Files](/data_formats/aria_vrs/timestamps_in_aria_vrs.mdx) for more information about how Aria sensor data is timestamped.

To translate the local timestamp of an arbitrary piece of data to the timecode time domain, you can interpolate between device timestamps in the time domain mapping data. An implementation of this mechanism is already provided in [VrsDataProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/VrsDataProvider.h#L299-L309). To synchronize data from a secondary device, you can query that second VRS with this timecode time. This functionality is also already implemented in the VrsDataProvider class.
