website/docs/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_visualizers.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 35
title: Visualizer
---

# Aria Everyday Activities Visualization

To help you visualize and debug your algorithms when using the Aria Everyday Activities (AEA) dataset, we’ve provided a Python based visualizer that can work with time synchronized data from multiple Project Aria glasses in a shared world location.

## Python Visualizer

`viewer_projects_aea` displays an interactive view of a single of couple of synchronized sequences with [Rerun](/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#rerun). It allows you to see all data in 3D context.

### Visualization of a single sequence:

```

viewer_projects_aea ---rotate-image --path loc1_script2_seq1_rec1

```

### Visualization of a couple of synchronized recording “locX_scriptY_seqZ_rec(1/2)”

```

viewer_projects_aea ---rotate-image --path loc1_script2_seq6_rec1 loc1_script2_seq6_rec2

```

![AEA Viewer Screenshot](/img/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_shared_3d_global_trajectories.png)

### Visualization of aligned 3D data per location

```
viewer_mps.py --trajectory `find . -wholename "*/loc1*closed_loop_trajectory.csv" -print` --points `find . -wholename "*/loc1*semidense_points.csv.gz" -print`
```

![Visualization of aligned 3D data](/img/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_mps_data_viewer.png)

## Troubleshooting

Go to [Data Utilities Troubleshooting](/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting.mdx) if you experience any issues.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor Visualization Update
Summary:
* Add cross links to visualization tools
* Add Multi-SLAM details to AEA dataset

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D54391532

fbshipit-source-id: 66c255007e93dcbd8cefb186052f24591d510dcf

website/docs/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_visualizers.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 35
title: Visualizer
---

# Aria Everyday Activities Visualization

To help you visualize and debug your algorithms when using the Aria Everyday Activities (AEA) dataset, we’ve provided a Python based visualizer that can work with time synchronized data from multiple Project Aria glasses in a shared world location.

## Python Visualizer

`viewer_projects_aea` displays an interactive view of one or two synchronized sequences using [Rerun](/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#rerun). It also allows you to see all data in a 3D context.

### Visualization of a single sequence:

```
viewer_projects_aea --rotate-image --path loc1_script2_seq1_rec1
```

### Visualization of two time synchronized recordings “locX_scriptY_seqZ_rec(1/2)”

The following command enables you to visualize recordings that were made in the same space and time.
Select `timecode_ns` from the timeline to view the data via synchronized timestamps, and select `device_time_ns` to see device specific timestamps.

Go to [Timestamp Definitions](/data_formats/aria_vrs/timestamps_in_aria_vrs.mdx) to find out more about Project Aria data timestamps.

```
viewer_projects_aea --rotate-image --path loc1_script2_seq6_rec1 loc1_script2_seq6_rec2
```

![AEA Viewer Screenshot](/img/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_shared_3d_global_trajectories.png)

### Visualization of aligned 3D data in a single location

The MPS Viewer can be used to visualize all the recordings, across multiple sessions and users that were recorded in the same location.

Go to [Visualization of Multi-SLAM data](data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#multi-slam) for more details.

![Visualization of aligned 3D data](/img/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aea_mps_data_viewer.png)

## Troubleshooting

Go to [Data Utilities Troubleshooting](/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting.mdx) if you experience any issues.
