website/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/sdk_sensor_profiles.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Access Sensor Profiles
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Project Aria glasses have multiple profiles that enable users to choose what sensors to record or stream with and what settings to use. Go to the [Recording Profiles page](/docs/tech_spec/recording_profiles.mdx) for more information about possible sensor configurations. You can also view different recording profile details when you select **Create a Recording** in the mobile app.

This page describes how sensor profiles can be retrieved via the CLI and used with the SDK

## Retrieve List Of Available Sensor Profiles

The CLI or SDK can be used to retrieve the available sensor profiles depending on your usage, recording or streaming:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="sdk"
  values={[
    {label: 'SDK', value: 'sdk'},
    {label: 'CLI', value: 'cli'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="sdk">

```python
import aria.sdk as aria

device_client = aria.DeviceClient()
device = device_client.connect()

# sensors profiles for recording
recording_manager = device.recording_manager
recording_profiles = recording_manager.recording_profiles
print(*recording_profiles)

# sensors profiles for streaming
streaming_manager = device.streaming_manager
streaming_profiles = streaming_manager.streaming_profiles
print(*streaming_profiles)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli">

```bash
# sensors profiles for recording
aria recording profiles --save-json --json-dir ~/recordingProfiles

# sensors profiles for streaming
aria streaming profiles --save-json --json-dir ~/streamingProfiles
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The `aria streaming profiles` command above will store the sensor profiles as json files under the specified directory where you will find e.g. `profile12.json` which contains the following

```json
{
 "name": "profile12",
 "description": "Streaming mode with JPEG (RGB 10fps 2MP, SLAM 10fps, ET 10fps QVGA, JPEG; Audio, GPS, Wi-Fi and BLE off)",
 "imu1": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 1000
 },
 "imu2": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 800
 },
 "magnetometer": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 10
 },
 "barometer": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 50
 },
 "audio": {
  "enabled": false,
  "numChannels": 0,
  "sampleRateHz": "0",
  "periodSize": 0
 },
 "gps": {
  "enabled": false,
  "dataRateHz": 0
 },
 "ble": {
  "enabled": false,
  "scanDurationMs": 0
 },
 "wifi": {
  "enabled": false,
  "scanDurationMs": 0,
  "wifiScanModeActive": false,
  "wifiMinDwellTimeMs": 0,
  "wifiMaxDwellTimeMs": 0
 },
 "slamCameras": {
  "enabled": true,
  "width": 640,
  "height": 480,
  "fps": 10,
  "autoExposureEnabled": true,
  "exposureMinUs": "0",
  "exposureMaxUs": "0",
  "gainMin": 0,
  "gainMax": 0,
  "exposureUs": "0",
  "gain": 0,
  "irLedEnabled": false,
  "imageFormat": "JPEG",
  "jpegEncoderType": "HARDWARE",
  "jpegQuality": 80,
  "videoEncoderQp": 0,
  "videoCodecType": "H264",
  "targetIntensity": 0
 },
 "etCamera": {
  "enabled": true,
  "width": 320,
  "height": 240,
  "fps": 10,
  "autoExposureEnabled": false,
  "exposureMinUs": "0",
  "exposureMaxUs": "0",
  "gainMin": 0,
  "gainMax": 0,
  "exposureUs": "1000",
  "gain": 1,
  "irLedEnabled": true,
  "imageFormat": "JPEG",
  "jpegEncoderType": "HARDWARE",
  "jpegQuality": 80,
  "videoEncoderQp": 0,
  "videoCodecType": "H264",
  "targetIntensity": 0
 },
 "rgbCamera": {
  "enabled": true,
  "width": 1408,
  "height": 1408,
  "fps": 10,
  "autoExposureEnabled": true,
  "exposureMinUs": "0",
  "exposureMaxUs": "0",
  "gainMin": 0,
  "gainMax": 0,
  "exposureUs": "0",
  "gain": 0,
  "irLedEnabled": false,
  "imageFormat": "JPEG",
  "jpegEncoderType": "HARDWARE",
  "jpegQuality": 80,
  "videoEncoderQp": 0,
  "videoCodecType": "H264",
  "targetIntensity": 0
 },
 "attention": {
  "enabled": false
 }
}
```

This JSON content shows exactly which sensors are used and how each sensor is configured. This can provide insight into how battery and thermal levels can be affected. For a general guide on which sensor to use depending on the use case go to the [Recording Profile Guide](/docs/ARK/glasses_manual/profile_guide.mdx)

## Use Sensor Profile

Once retrieved a sensor profile can be used to start recording or streaming.

Below, we will use the sensor profile `profile12` obtained from the previous step to start streaming:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="sdk"
  values={[
    {label: 'SDK', value: 'sdk'},
    {label: 'CLI', value: 'cli'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="sdk">

```python
streaming_manager = device.streaming_manager
streaming_config = aria.RecordingConfig()
streaming_config.profile_name = "profile12"
streaming_manager.streaming_config = streaming_config
streaming_manager.start_streaming()
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli">

```bash
aria streaming start --profile profile12
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

{Documentation} SDK Documentation Improvments
Summary:
* Make Python commands in virtual environment consistent (just use python)
* Fix formatting issues
* Improve information about how to find the glasses IP Address
* Add Dashboard information to Mobile Companion app

Reviewed By: alsun2001

Differential Revision: D50271489

fbshipit-source-id: e3adc31a9ba3f1832dc636019c9ffb0bf1d9b428

website/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/sdk_sensor_profiles.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Access Sensor Profiles
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Access Sensor Profiles Using the CLI or SDK

## Overview

This page provides information about how to access information about how your Project Aria glasses sensors can be configured and are configured, using the Cli or SDK.

Project Aria glasses have multiple recording profiles that enable users to choose what sensors to record or stream with and what settings to use. Go to the [Recording Profiles page](/docs/tech_spec/recording_profiles.mdx) for more information about possible sensor configurations. You can also view different recording profile details when you select **Create a Recording** in the Mobile Companion app.

## Retrieve list of available sensor profiles

The CLI or SDK can be used to retrieve the available sensor profiles depending on your usage, recording or streaming:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="sdk"
  values={[
    {label: 'SDK', value: 'sdk'},
    {label: 'CLI', value: 'cli'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="sdk">

```python
import aria.sdk as aria

device_client = aria.DeviceClient()
device = device_client.connect()

# sensors profiles for recording
recording_manager = device.recording_manager
recording_profiles = recording_manager.recording_profiles
print(*recording_profiles)

# sensors profiles for streaming
streaming_manager = device.streaming_manager
streaming_profiles = streaming_manager.streaming_profiles
print(*streaming_profiles)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli">

```bash
# sensors profiles for recording
aria recording profiles --save-json --json-dir ~/recordingProfiles

# sensors profiles for streaming
aria streaming profiles --save-json --json-dir ~/streamingProfiles
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The `aria streaming profiles` command above will store the sensor profiles as json files under the specified directory where you will find e.g. `profile12.json` which contains the following

```json
{
 "name": "profile12",
 "description": "Streaming mode with JPEG (RGB 10fps 2MP, SLAM 10fps, ET 10fps QVGA, JPEG; Audio, GPS, Wi-Fi and BLE off)",
 "imu1": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 1000
 },
 "imu2": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 800
 },
 "magnetometer": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 10
 },
 "barometer": {
  "enabled": true,
  "dataRateHz": 50
 },
 "audio": {
  "enabled": false,
  "numChannels": 0,
  "sampleRateHz": "0",
  "periodSize": 0
 },
 "gps": {
  "enabled": false,
  "dataRateHz": 0
 },
 "ble": {
  "enabled": false,
  "scanDurationMs": 0
 },
 "wifi": {
  "enabled": false,
  "scanDurationMs": 0,
  "wifiScanModeActive": false,
  "wifiMinDwellTimeMs": 0,
  "wifiMaxDwellTimeMs": 0
 },
 "slamCameras": {
  "enabled": true,
  "width": 640,
  "height": 480,
  "fps": 10,
  "autoExposureEnabled": true,
  "exposureMinUs": "0",
  "exposureMaxUs": "0",
  "gainMin": 0,
  "gainMax": 0,
  "exposureUs": "0",
  "gain": 0,
  "irLedEnabled": false,
  "imageFormat": "JPEG",
  "jpegEncoderType": "HARDWARE",
  "jpegQuality": 80,
  "videoEncoderQp": 0,
  "videoCodecType": "H264",
  "targetIntensity": 0
 },
 "etCamera": {
  "enabled": true,
  "width": 320,
  "height": 240,
  "fps": 10,
  "autoExposureEnabled": false,
  "exposureMinUs": "0",
  "exposureMaxUs": "0",
  "gainMin": 0,
  "gainMax": 0,
  "exposureUs": "1000",
  "gain": 1,
  "irLedEnabled": true,
  "imageFormat": "JPEG",
  "jpegEncoderType": "HARDWARE",
  "jpegQuality": 80,
  "videoEncoderQp": 0,
  "videoCodecType": "H264",
  "targetIntensity": 0
 },
 "rgbCamera": {
  "enabled": true,
  "width": 1408,
  "height": 1408,
  "fps": 10,
  "autoExposureEnabled": true,
  "exposureMinUs": "0",
  "exposureMaxUs": "0",
  "gainMin": 0,
  "gainMax": 0,
  "exposureUs": "0",
  "gain": 0,
  "irLedEnabled": false,
  "imageFormat": "JPEG",
  "jpegEncoderType": "HARDWARE",
  "jpegQuality": 80,
  "videoEncoderQp": 0,
  "videoCodecType": "H264",
  "targetIntensity": 0
 },
 "attention": {
  "enabled": false
 }
}
```

This JSON content shows exactly which sensors are used and how each sensor is configured. This can provide insight into how battery and thermal levels can be affected. For a general guide on which sensor to use depending on the use case go to the [Recording Profile Guide](/docs/ARK/glasses_manual/profile_guide.mdx)

## Use Recording (Sensor) Profile

Once retrieved a recording profile can be used to start recording or streaming.

Below, we will use the sensor profile `profile12` obtained from the previous step to start streaming:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="sdk"
  values={[
    {label: 'SDK', value: 'sdk'},
    {label: 'CLI', value: 'cli'},
  ]}>
<TabItem value="sdk">

```python
streaming_manager = device.streaming_manager
streaming_config = aria.RecordingConfig()
streaming_config.profile_name = "profile12"
streaming_manager.streaming_config = streaming_config
streaming_manager.start_streaming()
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli">

```bash
aria streaming start --profile profile12
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
