website/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/data_loader.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 60
title: Data Loader
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Data loading is broken down into two main loaders: AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider, AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.
In this section, we will give a high level introduction to the two data loader types.

As with all of projectaria_tools, we provide a [C++ implementation](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/tree/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider),
with [pybindings](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/python/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetToolsPyBind.h#L263) so that users can use our libraries in C++ or Python without loosing functionality.


## AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider

The main goal of this loader is to give the user an easy way to load
an ADT [sequence](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/data_format#sequence-and-subsequence) and its metadata,
to select a specific [subsequence](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/data_format#sequence-and-subsequence),
and to select specific annotations to load (e.g., [with or without skeleton](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/data_format#skeleton-data-and-availability)). AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider manages all ground truth file
paths that can be used to load ground truth data in AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.
The following shows an example code snippet which loads an ADT sequence and select a subsequence to be passed to the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
```python
from projectaria_tools.projects.adt import AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider

# define the sequence path you want to load
sequence_path = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence"

# create path provider
paths_provider = AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider(sequence_path)

# list all subsequences for this sequence
all_device_serials = paths_provider.get_device_serial_numbers()

# print the Aria device serial number used in each subsequence
for idx, device_serial in enumerate(all_device_serials):
    print("device number - ", idx, ": ", device_serial)

# load the set of ground truth data files without skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
data_paths_without_skeleton_occlusion = paths_provider.get_datapaths_by_device_num(0, False)

# load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
data_paths_with_skeleton_occlusion = paths_provider.get_datapaths_by_device_num(0, True)
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
```cpp
#include "AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider.h"

using namespace projectaria::dataset::adt;

// define the sequence path you want to load
std::string sequencePath = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence";

// create path provider
AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider dataPathsProvider(sequencePath);

// list all subsequences for this sequence
const auto& allDevices = dataPathsProvider.getDeviceSerialNumbers();

// print the Aria device serial number used in each subsequence
for (size_t i = 0; i < allDevices.size(); ++i) {
  fmt::print("  -- Device number {}: {}\n", i, allDevices[i]);
}

// load the set of ground truth data files without skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
std::optional<AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths> dataPathsWithoutSkeletonOcclusion =
      dataPathsProvider.getDataPathsByDeviceNum(0, false);

// load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
std::optional<AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths> dataPathsWithSkeletonOcclusion =
      dataPathsProvider.getDataPathsByDeviceNum(0, true);
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider

This is the core data loader that takes an instance of the AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths class (generated by the AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider) and provides you will query functions to access all ADT data. The following shows an example snippet to load ground truth data with the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider:

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
```python
from projectaria_tools.projects.adt import AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider, AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider

# define the sequence path you want to load
sequence_path = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence"

# create path provider
paths_provider = AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider(sequence_path)

# load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
data_paths_with_skeleton_occlusion = paths_provider.get_datapaths_by_device_num(0, True)

# create data provider
gt_provider = AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider(data_paths_with_skeleton_occlusion)
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
```cpp
#include "AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider.h"

using namespace projectaria::dataset::adt;

// define the sequence path you want to load
std::string sequencePath = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence";

// create path provider
AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider dataPathsProvider(sequencePath);

// load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
std::optional<AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths> dataPathsWithSkeletonOcclusion =
      dataPathsProvider.getDataPathsByDeviceNum(0, true);

// create data provider
AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider adtDataProvider(dataPaths);
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

### Skip Data loading

All data loaders are designed to allow the user to skip the loading of specific data types.
You can do this by setting the path to an empty string in your [AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider.h)
instance prior to constructing the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.

## Check Data Existence
Since we allow users to skip specific data type loading as explained above, we also provide functions in in [AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.h)
to check if data exists by calling their appropriate functions before calling the corresponding getter functions. E.g. hasObject3dBoundingboxes()

### Ground Truth Data Getter Functions

For a full example of the python getters, please refer to the notebook in the [Getting Started](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/getting_started).
For a full example of the C++ getters, please refer to the [visualizer example](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/visualizers).

#### Getting Instance Information

In ADT, we define an instance to be either a human or an object. The attributes of an instance is defined in class InstanceInfo in [AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes.h).
We use instanceType to differentiate a human and an object.

#### Time Query Options

You may have also noticed the timeQueryOptions parameter in the above getter functions. Same as dataprovider, all getter functions for timestamped data allow you to
specify how to query the timestamps. The options are defined in [TimeTypes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/TimeTypes.h)

#### Accessing Timestamped Data

All timestamped data query APIs return a templated DataWithDt class. For example, BoundingBox2dDataWithDt defined in [AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes.h) as:

```
using BoundingBox2dDataWithDt = DataWithDt<TypeBoundingBox2dMap>;
```

The goal of wrapping all data in a DataWithDt class is to ensure all returned timestamped data has two fields: isValid, and dtNs. Where isValid defined whether or not the returned data is valid,
since all timestamp queries may be invalid times, and dtNs to ensure the user always knows the time difference between the returned data and the query time.

#### Interpolation Function
We provide interpolation functions for 6DoF Aria poses and Object 3d bounding boxes called "getInterpolatedAria3dPoseAtTimestampNs" and "getInterpolatedObject3dBoundingBoxesAtTimestampNs"
in [AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.h)

### Time Synchronization Between Subsequences

Please refer to [this tutorial](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/advanced_tutorials) to find out how to synchronize subsequences in an ADT sequence.

### Skeleton Data

Separate from the 2D skeleton data, we also have skeleton frames as measured by Optitrack.
This data can be accessed directly from the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider, or using the AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider which can be extracted from AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.
Motive, the software that runs the Optitrack system, generates two types of skeleton data:

1. Skeleton Markers: a set of 3D marker positions of all visible markers that are attached to the bodysuit. If markers are occluded, they are set to [0,0,0].
We provide a helper function to get the labels: getMarkerLabels() in [AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider.h).
For more information see motive’s [_Biomech57 template_](https://v22.wiki.optitrack.com/index.php?title=Biomechanics_Markersets)

2. Skeleton Joints: a set of estimated 3D joint positions. We provide a list of these joint positions for each timestamp,
as well as the joint labels getJointConnections(), and connections getJointLabels() in in [AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider.h)

Note that both the markers and the joints are provided in the ADT Scene frame to be consistent with all other ground truth data.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Aria Everyday Activities
Summary:
Creating the AEA documentation section
Update Timestamp Definitions
Minor improvements to other pages

Reviewed By: nickcharron

Differential Revision: D53535062

fbshipit-source-id: 82c0cd8f223d3c1d8c7720fe0e22a2c3e969507c

website/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/data_loader.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: Data Loader
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Data loading is broken down into two main loaders: AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider, AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.
In this section, we will give a high level introduction to the two data loader types.

As with all of projectaria_tools, we provide a [C++ implementation](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/tree/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider),
with [pybindings](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/python/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetToolsPyBind.h#L263) so that users can use our libraries in C++ or Python without loosing functionality.


## AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider

The main goal of this loader is to give the user an easy way to load
an ADT [sequence](data_format.mdx#sequence-and-subsequence) and its metadata,
to select a specific [subsequence](data_format.mdx#sequence-and-subsequence),
and to select specific annotations to load (e.g., [with or without skeleton](data_format.mdx#skeleton-data-and-availability)). AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider manages all ground truth file
paths that can be used to load ground truth data in AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.
The following shows an example code snippet which loads an ADT sequence and select a subsequence to be passed to the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
```python
from projectaria_tools.projects.adt import AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider

# define the sequence path you want to load
sequence_path = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence"

# create path provider
paths_provider = AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider(sequence_path)

# list all subsequences for this sequence
all_device_serials = paths_provider.get_device_serial_numbers()

# print the Aria device serial number used in each subsequence
for idx, device_serial in enumerate(all_device_serials):
    print("device number - ", idx, ": ", device_serial)

# load the set of ground truth data files without skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
data_paths_without_skeleton_occlusion = paths_provider.get_datapaths_by_device_num(0, False)

# load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
data_paths_with_skeleton_occlusion = paths_provider.get_datapaths_by_device_num(0, True)
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
```cpp
#include "AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider.h"

using namespace projectaria::dataset::adt;

// define the sequence path you want to load
std::string sequencePath = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence";

// create path provider
AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider dataPathsProvider(sequencePath);

// list all subsequences for this sequence
const auto& allDevices = dataPathsProvider.getDeviceSerialNumbers();

// print the Aria device serial number used in each subsequence
for (size_t i = 0; i < allDevices.size(); ++i) {
  fmt::print("  -- Device number {}: {}\n", i, allDevices[i]);
}

// load the set of ground truth data files without skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
std::optional<AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths> dataPathsWithoutSkeletonOcclusion =
      dataPathsProvider.getDataPathsByDeviceNum(0, false);

// load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
std::optional<AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths> dataPathsWithSkeletonOcclusion =
      dataPathsProvider.getDataPathsByDeviceNum(0, true);
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider

This is the core data loader that takes an instance of the AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths class (generated by the AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider) and provides you will query functions to access all ADT data. The following shows an example snippet to load ground truth data with the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider:

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
```python
from projectaria_tools.projects.adt import AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider, AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider

# define the sequence path you want to load
sequence_path = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence"

# create path provider
paths_provider = AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider(sequence_path)

# load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
data_paths_with_skeleton_occlusion = paths_provider.get_datapaths_by_device_num(0, True)

# create data provider
gt_provider = AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider(data_paths_with_skeleton_occlusion)
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
```cpp
#include "AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider.h"

using namespace projectaria::dataset::adt;

// define the sequence path you want to load
std::string sequencePath = "PATH/TO/An_ADT_sequence";

// create path provider
AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider dataPathsProvider(sequencePath);

// load the set of ground truth data files with skeleton occlusion of the first Aria device
std::optional<AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths> dataPathsWithSkeletonOcclusion =
      dataPathsProvider.getDataPathsByDeviceNum(0, true);

// create data provider
AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider adtDataProvider(dataPaths);
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

### Skip Data loading

All data loaders are designed to allow the user to skip the loading of specific data types.
You can do this by setting the path to an empty string in your [AriaDigitalTwinDataPaths](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataPathsProvider.h)
instance prior to constructing the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.

## Check Data Existence
Since we allow users to skip specific data type loading as explained above, we also provide functions in in [AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.h)
to check if data exists by calling their appropriate functions before calling the corresponding getter functions. E.g. hasObject3dBoundingboxes()

### Ground Truth Data Getter Functions

For a full example of the python getters, please refer to the notebook in the [Getting Started](getting_started.mdx).
For a full example of the C++ getters, please refer to the [visualizer example](visualizers.mdx).

#### Getting Instance Information

In ADT, we define an instance to be either a human or an object. The attributes of an instance is defined in class InstanceInfo in [AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes.h).
We use instanceType to differentiate a human and an object.

#### Time Query Options

You may have also noticed the timeQueryOptions parameter in the above getter functions. Same as dataprovider, all getter functions for timestamped data allow you to
specify how to query the timestamps. The options are defined in [TimeTypes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/data_provider/TimeTypes.h)

#### Accessing Timestamped Data

All timestamped data query APIs return a templated DataWithDt class. For example, BoundingBox2dDataWithDt defined in [AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataTypes.h) as:

```
using BoundingBox2dDataWithDt = DataWithDt<TypeBoundingBox2dMap>;
```

The goal of wrapping all data in a DataWithDt class is to ensure all returned timestamped data has two fields: isValid, and dtNs. Where isValid defined whether or not the returned data is valid,
since all timestamp queries may be invalid times, and dtNs to ensure the user always knows the time difference between the returned data and the query time.

#### Interpolation Function
We provide interpolation functions for 6DoF Aria poses and Object 3d bounding boxes called "getInterpolatedAria3dPoseAtTimestampNs" and "getInterpolatedObject3dBoundingBoxesAtTimestampNs"
in [AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.h)

### Time Synchronization Between Subsequences

The [Advanced Tutorial](advanced_tutorials.mdx) shows how to synchronize subsequences in an ADT sequence.

**Further resources:**
* [Timestamps in Aria VRS Files](/data_formats/aria_vrs/timestamps_in_aria_vrs.mdx) - how Project Aria timestamp data is formatted in VRS for single and multiple devices
* [Project Aria Device Timestamping](/tech_insights/device_timestamping.mdx) - how the hardware is configured
* [Temporal Alignment of Aria Sensor Data](/tech_insights/temporal_alignment_of_sensor_data.mdx) - how the data is temporally aligned and how to finely align IMU, barometer and magnetometer data

### Skeleton Data

Separate from the 2D skeleton data, we also have skeleton frames as measured by Optitrack.
This data can be accessed directly from the AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider, or using the AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider which can be extracted from AriaDigitalTwinDataProvider.
Motive, the software that runs the Optitrack system, generates two types of skeleton data:

1. Skeleton Markers: a set of 3D marker positions of all visible markers that are attached to the bodysuit. If markers are occluded, they are set to [0,0,0].
We provide a helper function to get the labels: getMarkerLabels() in [AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider.h).
For more information see motive’s [_Biomech57 template_](https://v22.wiki.optitrack.com/index.php?title=Biomechanics_Markersets)

2. Skeleton Joints: a set of estimated 3D joint positions. We provide a list of these joint positions for each timestamp,
as well as the joint labels getJointConnections(), and connections getJointLabels() in in [AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/data_provider/AriaDigitalTwinSkeletonProvider.h)

Note that both the markers and the joints are provided in the ADT Scene frame to be consistent with all other ground truth data.
