website/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/visualizers.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Visualizers
---

For convenience, to help you visualize and debug your algorithms, we are providing various language visualizer:
- [Python based](#python)
- [C++ based](#C++)

---

<div id="python"></div>

## Python Visualizer

`viewer_projects_adt` displays an interactive view of an ADT sequence with [Rerun](/docs/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python#rerun). It allows to see all data in 3D context.

```
viewer_projects_adt --sequence_path Apartment_release_multiskeleton_party_seq104
```
![ADT Viewer Screenshot](/img/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/rerun-adt.png)

:::tip
* The timeline enables you to see when a given object is being moved
* The 3D world view is clickable, you can quickly select an object and see its instance name

* You can quickly see where an object has been moved all along the sequence using the “Visible Time Range” feature in the RIGHT panel.
![ADT Viewer Screenshot](/img/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/rerun-adt-time-window.png)
:::

<div id="C++"></div>

## C++ Visualizer

`AriaDigitalTwinViewer` is a C++ binary written to visualize ADT data with toggles for each ground truth data type and a slider bar for frame selection. The image below shows an example screenshot of the viewer.

![AriaDigitalTwinViewer](/img/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/AdtViewer.png)

### Step 1 : Download Sample Sequence:

Download the sample Aria Digital Twin (ADT) sequence
[follow this guide](/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/dataset_download#download-the-sample-aria-digital-twin-adt-sequence).

### Step 2 : Build projectaria_tools C++ libraries

Follow the [entire C++ installation](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp) to build projectaria_tools C++ libraries with visualization.

### Step 3 : Build AriaDigitalTwinViewer

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

cmake ../projectaria_tools  -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_PROJECTS=ON -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_PROJECTS_ADT=ON

make -j2
```

### Step 4 : Run AriaDigitalTwinViewer

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/visualization/AriaDigitalTwinViewer \
--sequence-path $HOME/Documents/projectaria_tools_adt_data/Apartment_release_golden_skeleton_seq100_10s_sample/ \
--device-num 0 --skeleton-flag 0
```

## Troubleshooting

Check the [troubleshooting](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you are having issues in this guide.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Aria Everyday Activities
Summary:
Creating the AEA documentation section
Update Timestamp Definitions
Minor improvements to other pages

Reviewed By: nickcharron

Differential Revision: D53535062

fbshipit-source-id: 82c0cd8f223d3c1d8c7720fe0e22a2c3e969507c

website/docs/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/visualizers.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 60
title: Visualizers
---

To help you visualize and debug your algorithms when using the Aria Digital TwinDataset, we’ve provided the following visualizers:

- [Python based](#python)
- [C++ based](#C++)

---

<div id="python"></div>

## Python Visualizer

`viewer_projects_adt` displays an interactive view of an ADT sequence with [Rerun](/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#rerun). It allows to see all data in 3D context.

```
viewer_projects_adt --sequence_path Apartment_release_multiskeleton_party_seq104
```
![ADT Viewer Screenshot](/img/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/rerun-adt.png)

:::tip
* The timeline enables you to see when a given object is being moved
* The 3D world view is clickable, you can quickly select an object and see its instance name

* You can quickly see where an object has been moved all along the sequence using the “Visible Time Range” feature in the RIGHT panel.
![ADT Viewer Screenshot](/img/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/rerun-adt-time-window.png)
:::

<div id="C++"></div>

## C++ Visualizer

`AriaDigitalTwinViewer` is a C++ binary written to visualize ADT data with toggles for each ground truth data type and a slider bar for frame selection. The image below shows an example screenshot of the viewer.

![AriaDigitalTwinViewer](/img/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/AdtViewer.png)

### Step 1 : Download Sample Sequence:

Download the sample Aria Digital Twin (ADT) sequence
[follow this guide](dataset_download.mdx#download-the-sample-aria-digital-twin-adt-sequence).

### Step 2 : Build projectaria_tools C++ libraries

Follow the [entire C++ installation](/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp.mdx) to build projectaria_tools C++ libraries with visualization.

### Step 3 : Build AriaDigitalTwinViewer

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

cmake ../projectaria_tools  -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_PROJECTS=ON -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_PROJECTS_ADT=ON

make -j2
```

### Step 4 : Run AriaDigitalTwinViewer

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./projects/AriaDigitalTwinDatasetTools/visualization/AriaDigitalTwinViewer \
--sequence-path $HOME/Documents/projectaria_tools_adt_data/Apartment_release_golden_skeleton_seq100_10s_sample/ \
--device-num 0 --skeleton-flag 0
```

## Troubleshooting

Go to [Data Utilities Troubleshooting](/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting.mdx) if you experience any issues.
