website/docs/data_utilities/visualization_guide.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Visualizers
---

# Project Aria Tools Visualizers

## Overview
This page introduces the core visualization tools available in Project Aria Tools. We've provided example datasets to test these tools.


* [Aria Viewer](#aria-viewer): visualize raw Aria data
* [MPS 3D Scene Viewer](#mps-static-scene-visualizer): renders a static scene using Aria data with trajectories,
global point cloud, and static camera poses
* [MPS 3D Replay Viewer](#mps-3d-replay-visualizer): renders static scene and dynamic elements: 2D/3D observations rays + eye gaze data,
* [MPS Eye Gaze Viewer](#mps-eye-gaze-visualizer): visualize Aria data with eye gaze data
---

## Requirements

### Step 0 : Check system requirements and download codebase

Go to the [Download Codebase](/docs/data_utilities/installation/download_codebase) page to:
   * Check your system is supported
   * Download projectaria_tools codebase from the github

### Step 1 : Build and install visualizers

The visualizers need the C++ version of Project Aria Tools to run.

* In the [C++ Installation Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp), follow the instructions to [build from source with visualization](docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp#build-from-source-with-visualization)

<div id="aria-viewer"></div>

## Run Aria Viewer

[Aria Viewer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/visualization/main.cpp) enable you to to visualize Aria device recorded VRS files. It shows all sensor data including:
* Camera images
* IMU
* Audio (visualization of waveform, sound is not available)

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/visualization/aria_viewer --vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs
```
![Aria Viewer Screenshot](/img/data_utilities/aria-viewer.png)

<div id="mps-static-scene-visualizer"></div>

## Run MPS 3D Scene Viewer

The [MPS 3D Scene Viewer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/mps_visualization/main_3d_scene_viewer.cpp) renders a static scene using location MPS output.

Through this tool you can create visualizations using:
* Closed loop trajectories
* Global point cloud
* Static camera poses
* Open loop trajectories
   * Because open loop is in odometry frame of reference, it shouldn’t be visualized with closed loop trajectories, global points or static camera poses

This tutorial generates a visualization containing:
* Closed loop trajectories
* Global point cloud

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/mps_visualization/mps_3d_scene_viewer \
    --closed-loop-traj \
    ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/closed_loop_trajectory.csv \
    --global-point-cloud \
    ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/global_points.csv.gz
```
![Screenshot of 3D Scene Viewer UI](/img/data_utilities/mps-3d-staticscene-viewer.png)

:::info
Because the sample dataset doesn't have static cameras you won't be able to interact with the static camera settings
:::

<div id="mps-3d-replay-visualizer"></div>

## Run MPS 3D Replay Viewer

The [MPS 3D Replay Viewer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/mps_visualization/main_3d_replay_viewer.cpp) renders static scene and dynamic elements at each frame: Aria's pose + 2D/3D observations rays + eye gaze data.

Through this tool you can create visualizations using:
* Closed loop trajectories
* Semi-Dense Point Cloud
   * Global point cloud
   * Point observations
* Static camera poses

This tutorial generates a visualization containing:
* Static elements
   * Closed loop trajectories
   * Global point cloud
* Dynamic elements
   * One closed loop trajectory for replay
   * 2D/3D point observations rays
   * Eye Gaze vector

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/mps_visualization/mps_3d_replay_viewer \
  --vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs  \
  --replay-trajectory ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/closed_loop_trajectory.csv \
  --closed-loop-traj ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/closed_loop_trajectory.csv \
  --global-point-cloud ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/global_points.csv.gz \
  --point-obs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/semidense_observations.csv.gz \
  --generalized-eye-gaze ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/eye_gaze/eyegaze.csv
```
![Screenshot of 3D Replay Viewer UI](/img/data_utilities/mps-3d-replay-viewer.png)


<div id="mps-eye-gaze-visualizer"></div>

## MPS Eye Gaze visualizer

The [MPS Eye Gaze visualizer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/mps_visualization/main_eyegaze.cpp) renders the computed eye gaze and vrs data side by side. The visualizer contains:

* Eye Tracking camera stream
* RGB, Mono Scene (SLAM) left and right camera streams
   * A red dot shows the projection of the eye gaze onto the image
   * The projection is computed using a fixed depth of 1m
* 2D graph plot of the gaze yaw and pitch angles in radians
* 2D radar plot of the eye gaze yaw and pitch angles

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/mps_visualization/mps_eyegaze_viewer \
    --vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs \
    --eyegaze  ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/eye_gaze/eyegaze.csv
```

![Screenshot of MPS Eye Gaze Viewer](/img/data_utilities/mps-eyegaze-viewer.png)

## Troubleshooting

Check the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter issues using this tutorial.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Add doc about samples downloaded from cloud
Summary: Add documentation about getting the sample vrs and eye gaze outputs from the cloud for visualization with mps_eyegaze_viewer

Reviewed By: vijay609

Differential Revision: D49551355

fbshipit-source-id: 258f3e6c0483dd7794e1e577ca7dd9a44f5d2a89

website/docs/data_utilities/visualization_guide.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: Visualizers
---

# Project Aria Tools Visualizers

## Overview
This page introduces the core visualization tools available in Project Aria Tools. We've provided example datasets to test these tools.


* [Aria Viewer](#aria-viewer): visualize raw Aria data
* [MPS 3D Scene Viewer](#mps-static-scene-visualizer): renders a static scene using Aria data with trajectories,
global point cloud, and static camera poses
* [MPS 3D Replay Viewer](#mps-3d-replay-visualizer): renders static scene and dynamic elements: 2D/3D observations rays + eye gaze data,
* [MPS Eye Gaze Viewer](#mps-eye-gaze-visualizer): visualize Aria data with eye gaze data
---

## Requirements

### Step 0 : Check system requirements and download codebase

Go to the [Download Codebase](/docs/data_utilities/installation/download_codebase) page to:
   * Check your system is supported
   * Download projectaria_tools codebase from the github

### Step 1 : Build and install visualizers

The visualizers need the C++ version of Project Aria Tools to run.

* In the [C++ Installation Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp), follow the instructions to [build from source with visualization](docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp#build-from-source-with-visualization)

<div id="aria-viewer"></div>

## Run Aria Viewer

[Aria Viewer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/visualization/main.cpp) enable you to to visualize Aria device recorded VRS files. It shows all sensor data including:
* Camera images
* IMU
* Audio (visualization of waveform, sound is not available)

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/visualization/aria_viewer --vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs
```
![Aria Viewer Screenshot](/img/data_utilities/aria-viewer.png)

<div id="mps-static-scene-visualizer"></div>

## Run MPS 3D Scene Viewer

The [MPS 3D Scene Viewer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/mps_visualization/main_3d_scene_viewer.cpp) renders a static scene using location MPS output.

Through this tool you can create visualizations using:
* Closed loop trajectories
* Global point cloud
* Static camera poses
* Open loop trajectories
   * Because open loop is in odometry frame of reference, it shouldn’t be visualized with closed loop trajectories, global points or static camera poses

This tutorial generates a visualization containing:
* Closed loop trajectories
* Global point cloud

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/mps_visualization/mps_3d_scene_viewer \
    --closed-loop-traj \
    ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/closed_loop_trajectory.csv \
    --global-point-cloud \
    ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/global_points.csv.gz
```
![Screenshot of 3D Scene Viewer UI](/img/data_utilities/mps-3d-staticscene-viewer.png)

:::info
Because the sample dataset doesn't have static cameras you won't be able to interact with the static camera settings
:::

<div id="mps-3d-replay-visualizer"></div>

## Run MPS 3D Replay Viewer

The [MPS 3D Replay Viewer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/mps_visualization/main_3d_replay_viewer.cpp) renders static scene and dynamic elements at each frame: Aria's pose + 2D/3D observations rays + eye gaze data.

Through this tool you can create visualizations using:
* Closed loop trajectories
* Semi-Dense Point Cloud
   * Global point cloud
   * Point observations
* Static camera poses

This tutorial generates a visualization containing:
* Static elements
   * Closed loop trajectories
   * Global point cloud
* Dynamic elements
   * One closed loop trajectory for replay
   * 2D/3D point observations rays
   * Eye Gaze vector

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

./tools/mps_visualization/mps_3d_replay_viewer \
  --vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs  \
  --replay-trajectory ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/closed_loop_trajectory.csv \
  --closed-loop-traj ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/closed_loop_trajectory.csv \
  --global-point-cloud ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/global_points.csv.gz \
  --point-obs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/trajectory/semidense_observations.csv.gz \
  --generalized-eye-gaze ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/eye_gaze/eyegaze.csv
```
![Screenshot of 3D Replay Viewer UI](/img/data_utilities/mps-3d-replay-viewer.png)


<div id="mps-eye-gaze-visualizer"></div>

## MPS Eye Gaze visualizer

The [MPS Eye Gaze visualizer](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/tools/mps_visualization/main_eyegaze.cpp) renders the computed eye gaze and vrs data side by side. The visualizer contains:

* Eye Tracking camera stream
* RGB, Mono Scene (SLAM) left and right camera streams
   * A red dot shows the projection of the eye gaze onto the image
   * The projection is computed using a fixed depth of 1m
* 2D graph plot of the gaze yaw and pitch angles in radians
* 2D radar plot of the eye gaze yaw and pitch angles

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build
```

You should download the sample dataset with in-session calibration from which both a `generalized_eye_gaze.csv` and `calibrated_eye_gaze.csv`
are generated. These files can be obtained as follows:

### Change this path as desired
```
MPS_SAMPLE_PATH=/tmp/mps_sample
mkdir -p $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH
```

### Download the files
```
curl -o $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH/sample.vrs -O -J -L "https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=mps&filename=sample.vrs"
curl -o $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH/eye_gaze.zip -O -J -L "https://www.projectaria.com/async/sample/download/?bucket=mps&filename=eye_gaze.zip"
```

### Unzip the MPS outputputs
```
unzip -o $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH/eye_gaze.zip  -d $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH
```

### Run visualizer and visualize both generalized and calibrated eye gaze
```
 ./tools/mps_visualization/mps_eyegaze_viewer --vrs $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH/sample.vrs \
    --generalized-eye-gaze $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH/eye_gaze/generalized_eye_gaze.csv \
    --calibrated-eye-gaze $MPS_SAMPLE_PATH/eye_gaze/calibrated_eye_gaze.csv
```

![Screenshot of MPS Eye Gaze Viewer](/img/data_utilities/mps-eyegaze-viewer.png)

## Troubleshooting

Check the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter issues using this tutorial.
