website/docs/data_utilities/core_code_snippets/image.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Image
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

In this section, we introduce the Python/C++ API to access images ([projectaria_tools/main/core/image](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/image)).

## Raw sensor data
Raw image data is stored in `ImageData`. ImageData is a type alias of an std::pair. The two components of that pair are:
1. The image frame stored in `vrs::PixelFrame` class (potentially compressed)
   * We recommend that users do not directly use PixelFrame
2. Image data records
   * Image acquisition information such as timestamps, exposure and gain

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider, image
from projectaria_tools.core.stream_id import StreamId

vrsfile = "example.vrs"
provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrsfile)

stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-slam-left")
image_data =  provider.get_image_data_by_index(stream_id, 0)
pixel_frame = image_data[0].pixel_frame
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
```cpp
auto streamId = provider.getStreamIdFromLabel("camera-slam-left");
auto imageData =  provider.getImageDataByIndex(streamId, i);
auto pixelFrame = imageData->pixelFrame();
```
Since `PixelFrame` may contain compressed data, the class does not provide an interface for accessing pixel values.

`ImageData` provides an interface to get an `ImageVariant` interface for the data described below:

```cpp
auto maybeImageVariant = imageData.imageVariant();
XR_CHECK(maybeImageVariant, "Image is invalid");
auto& imageVariant = *maybeImageVariant();
```

We recommend that C++ users to manipulate images using the `Image` and `ManagedImage` and their variant classes.
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Manipulating images
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
In Python, we provide an interface for converting from ImageData into numpy arrays.
```python
image_array = image_data[0].to_numpy_array()
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```

## Image and ImageVariants (C++)
The `Image` class provides an interface to access image information and pixels. The class is templated, with different specializations varying by number of channels and scalar data type.
```cpp
ImageU8 image = std::get<ImageU8>(imageVariant); // get grayscale image
int width = image.width(); // image width
int height = image.height(); // image height
int channel = image.channel(); // number of channels
int stride = image.stride(); // number of bytes per row
uint8_t* data = image.data(); // weak pointer to data
uint8_t pixel_value = image(0, 0); // access to pixel value if coordinate is of integral type
uint8_t pixel_value = image(0,5, 0.5); // bilinear interpolate pixel value if coordinate is of float type
```
You can iterate through an image by using:
``` c++
for (const uint8_t& pixel : image) {
  // process pixel
}
```
Note that the `Image` class is non-owning. It is a wrapper of a chunk of data, which might be managed by `PixelFrame` or `ManagedImage` or even a raw data pointer.

The `ImageVariant` class represents uncompressed image frames in matrix form. Under the hood, it is a `std::variant` of `Image` classes of different specializations.

We provide similar APIs to access data from image variants.

```cpp
int width = getWidth(imageVariant); // image width
int height = getHeight(imageVariant); // image width
int channel = getChannel(imageVariant); // number of channels
uint8_t* data = getDataPtr(imageVariant); // pointer to data
uint8_t pixel_value = at(imageVariant, 0, 0); // access to pixel value if coordinate is of integral type
// bilinear interpolation not available yet, but you can do the following
uint8_t pixel_value = std::visit([](auto& image) {return PixelValueVariant(image(0.5, 0.5, 0))}, imageVariant);
```
The image variant types used in Aria raw sensor data are listed in the table below.

|**Sensor** |Number of Channels|Scalar Data Type |Image Type| ManagedImage Type|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|Eyetracking| 1| `uint8_t` |`ImageU8`| `ManagedImageU8`|
|Mono Scene (SLAM)| 1| `uint8_t`|`ImageU8`|`ManagedImageU8`|
|RGB| 3| `uint8_t`|`Image3U8`|`ManagedImage3U8`|
|Depth| 1| `uint16_t`|`ImageU16`|`ManagedImageU16`|
|Segmentation| 1|`uint64_t`|`ImageU64`|`ManagedImageU64`|

## ManagedImage and ManagedImageVariant (C++)
The templated `ManagedImage` class manages the data of an image. Most importantly, you can initialize a `ManagedImage` via:
```cpp
ManagedImageU8 managedImage(width, height); // grayscale image
```
You can change the size of an existing `ManagedImage` via:
```cpp
managedImage.reinitialize(newWidth, newHeight); // grayscale image
```
The class is a derived class of the corresponding class, and therefore inherits all the `Image` interface. All functions taking `Image` as input can also take `ManagedImages`.

The `ManagedImageVariant` class is the `std::variant` of all supported `ManagedImage` specializations. Notably, `ManagedImageVariant` is not a derived class of `ImageVariant`. However, assume you have a function `fn` that takes `ImageVariant`, you can pass a `ManagedImageVariant` object by using:

```cpp
ImageVariant imageVariant = toImageVariant(managedImageVariant);
fn(imageVariant);
```



```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Improvements to Findability and minor edits
Summary: Project Aria Tools content was difficult to find when people were searching the internet for instructions. We've made minor updates to the content to help make it easier for people to find the content they're looking for.

Reviewed By: PiotrBrzyski

Differential Revision: D48881969

fbshipit-source-id: 847de4a0806e6c359da893de1ef23859b04c32a5

website/docs/data_utilities/core_code_snippets/image.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Image
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Image Code Snippets

In this section, we introduce the Python/C++ API to access and manipulate Project Aria images ([projectaria_tools/main/core/image](https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/blob/main/core/image)). Raw Aria data is stored in VRS files.

## Raw sensor data
Raw image data is stored in `ImageData`. ImageData is a type alias of an std::pair. The two components of that pair are:
1. The image frame stored in `vrs::PixelFrame` class (potentially compressed)
   * We recommend that users do not directly use PixelFrame
2. Image data records
   * Image acquisition information such as timestamps, exposure and gain

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
```python
from projectaria_tools.core import data_provider, image
from projectaria_tools.core.stream_id import StreamId

vrsfile = "example.vrs"
provider = data_provider.create_vrs_data_provider(vrsfile)

stream_id = provider.get_stream_id_from_label("camera-slam-left")
image_data =  provider.get_image_data_by_index(stream_id, 0)
pixel_frame = image_data[0].pixel_frame
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```
```cpp
auto streamId = provider.getStreamIdFromLabel("camera-slam-left");
auto imageData =  provider.getImageDataByIndex(streamId, i);
auto pixelFrame = imageData->pixelFrame();
```
Since `PixelFrame` may contain compressed data, the class does not provide an interface for accessing pixel values.

`ImageData` provides an interface to get an `ImageVariant` interface for the data described below:

```cpp
auto maybeImageVariant = imageData.imageVariant();
XR_CHECK(maybeImageVariant, "Image is invalid");
auto& imageVariant = *maybeImageVariant();
```

We recommend that C++ users to manipulate images using the `Image` and `ManagedImage` and their variant classes.
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Manipulating images
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="python" label="Python">
```
In Python, we provide an interface for converting from ImageData into numpy arrays.
```python
image_array = image_data[0].to_numpy_array()
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cpp" label="C++">
```

## Image and ImageVariants (C++)
The `Image` class provides an interface to access image information and pixels. The class is templated, with different specializations varying by number of channels and scalar data type.
```cpp
ImageU8 image = std::get<ImageU8>(imageVariant); // get grayscale image
int width = image.width(); // image width
int height = image.height(); // image height
int channel = image.channel(); // number of channels
int stride = image.stride(); // number of bytes per row
uint8_t* data = image.data(); // weak pointer to data
uint8_t pixel_value = image(0, 0); // access to pixel value if coordinate is of integral type
uint8_t pixel_value = image(0,5, 0.5); // bilinear interpolate pixel value if coordinate is of float type
```
You can iterate through an image by using:
``` c++
for (const uint8_t& pixel : image) {
  // process pixel
}
```
Note that the `Image` class is non-owning. It is a wrapper of a chunk of data, which might be managed by `PixelFrame` or `ManagedImage` or even a raw data pointer.

The `ImageVariant` class represents uncompressed image frames in matrix form. Under the hood, it is a `std::variant` of `Image` classes of different specializations.

We provide similar APIs to access data from image variants.

```cpp
int width = getWidth(imageVariant); // image width
int height = getHeight(imageVariant); // image width
int channel = getChannel(imageVariant); // number of channels
uint8_t* data = getDataPtr(imageVariant); // pointer to data
uint8_t pixel_value = at(imageVariant, 0, 0); // access to pixel value if coordinate is of integral type
// bilinear interpolation not available yet, but you can do the following
uint8_t pixel_value = std::visit([](auto& image) {return PixelValueVariant(image(0.5, 0.5, 0))}, imageVariant);
```
The image variant types used in Aria raw sensor data are listed in the table below.

|**Sensor** |Number of Channels|Scalar Data Type |Image Type| ManagedImage Type|
|--|--|--|--|--|
|Eyetracking| 1| `uint8_t` |`ImageU8`| `ManagedImageU8`|
|Mono Scene (SLAM)| 1| `uint8_t`|`ImageU8`|`ManagedImageU8`|
|RGB| 3| `uint8_t`|`Image3U8`|`ManagedImage3U8`|
|Depth| 1| `uint16_t`|`ImageU16`|`ManagedImageU16`|
|Segmentation| 1|`uint64_t`|`ImageU64`|`ManagedImageU64`|

## ManagedImage and ManagedImageVariant (C++)
The templated `ManagedImage` class manages the data of an image. Most importantly, you can initialize a `ManagedImage` via:
```cpp
ManagedImageU8 managedImage(width, height); // grayscale image
```
You can change the size of an existing `ManagedImage` via:
```cpp
managedImage.reinitialize(newWidth, newHeight); // grayscale image
```
The class is a derived class of the corresponding class, and therefore inherits all the `Image` interface. All functions taking `Image` as input can also take `ManagedImages`.

The `ManagedImageVariant` class is the `std::variant` of all supported `ManagedImage` specializations. Notably, `ManagedImageVariant` is not a derived class of `ImageVariant`. However, assume you have a function `fn` that takes `ImageVariant`, you can pass a `ManagedImageVariant` object by using:

```cpp
ImageVariant imageVariant = toImageVariant(managedImageVariant);
fn(imageVariant);
```



```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```
