website/docs/ARK/sdk/sdk.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: About the SDK
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Project Aria Client SDK and CLI

The Project Aria Client SDK provides robust capabilities for creating computer vision and machine learning applications with Project Aria glasses. CLI capabilities are also installed as part of the SDK.


### Client SDK and CLI capabilities



```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="cli-sdk-capabilities">
<TabItem value="sdk" label="SDK">
```

Through the SDK you can:
- Connect and disconnect from the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Retrieve detailed device information and its current status
- Control Aria recording capabilities
- Control Aria streaming capabilities
- Access calibration data for the sensors you're recording with
- Subscribe and listen to Aria sensor data
- Visualize streaming data

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">
```

Through the CLI, you can:
- Pair the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Connect to the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Control Aria recording capabilities
- Control Aria streaming capabilities

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```


### This documentation covers:

* [Set Up Guide](/docs/ARK/sdk/setup)
    * Requirements
    * Download and Install
    * Pair your Aria glasses to the computer
    * Download code samples
* Code Samples
    * [device_connect](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection)
        * Connect to the Aria glasses using USB
            * USB connection is required to initiate all connections, including streaming over Wi-Fi
        * Fetch device information, such as the device serial number
        * Fetch device status, such as battery level or Wi-Fi SSID
    * [device_record](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_recording)
        * Set a [recording profile](/docs/tech_spec/recording_profiles)
        * Access sensor calibration through the recording manager
        * Start recording, stop recording, and record for a specific duration
    * [device_stream](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream)
        * Set how the sensors will stream data using [recording profiles](/docs/tech_spec/recording_profiles)
        * Access sensor calibration through the streaming manager.
        * Start and stop streaming data from Aria glasses
        * Visualize the live stream
    * [streaming_subscribe](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/streaming_subscribe)
        * Subscribe to a streaming session initiated by device_stream and access sensor data through its observer
        * Visualize the live stream
        * Unsubscribe from a streaming session
* Core Concepts
    * [Sensor Profiles](/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/sdk_sensor_profiles) - access information about Aria Recording Profiles via the CLI or SDK
    * [Streaming Internals](/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/streaming_internals) - deeper dives into how data is streamed
* [API References](/docs/ARK/sdk/api_reference)
* [CLI documentation](/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/cli.mdx)
* [Troubleshooting](/docs/ARK/sdk/sdk_troubleshooting)

If you run into any issues, please check out the [Troubleshooting page](/docs/ARK/sdk/sdk_troubleshooting), post to [Academic Partners Feedback and Support](/docs/ARK/workplacegroup) or email to AriaOps@meta.com

Commit message:

{Documentation} SDK Documentation Improvments
Summary:
* Make Python commands in virtual environment consistent (just use python)
* Fix formatting issues
* Improve information about how to find the glasses IP Address
* Add Dashboard information to Mobile Companion app

Reviewed By: alsun2001

Differential Revision: D50271489

fbshipit-source-id: e3adc31a9ba3f1832dc636019c9ffb0bf1d9b428

website/docs/ARK/sdk/sdk.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: About the SDK
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Project Aria Client SDK and CLI

The Project Aria Client SDK provides robust capabilities for creating computer vision and machine learning applications with Project Aria glasses. CLI capabilities are also installed as part of the SDK.

### Client SDK and CLI capabilities

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="cli-sdk-capabilities">
<TabItem value="sdk" label="Client SDK">
```

Through the Client SDK you can:
- Connect and disconnect from the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Retrieve detailed device information and its current status
- Control Aria recording capabilities
- Control Aria streaming capabilities
- Access calibration data for the sensors you're recording with
- Subscribe and listen to Aria sensor data
- Visualize streaming data

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">
```

Through the CLI, you can:
- Pair the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Connect to the glasses via USB or Wi-Fi
- Control Aria recording capabilities
- Control Aria streaming capabilities

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```
These features have been tested with one pair of Aria glasses connected to one computer.

### This documentation covers:

* [Set Up Guide](/docs/ARK/sdk/setup)
    * Requirements
    * Download and Install
    * Pair your Aria glasses to the computer
    * Download code samples
* Code Samples
    * [device_connect](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection)
        * Connect to the Aria glasses using USB
            * USB connection is required to initiate all connections, including streaming over Wi-Fi
        * Fetch device information, such as the device serial number
        * Fetch device status, such as battery level or Wi-Fi SSID
    * [device_record](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_recording)
        * Set a [recording profile](/docs/tech_spec/recording_profiles)
        * Access sensor calibration through the recording manager
        * Start recording, stop recording, and record for a specific duration
    * [device_stream](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream)
        * Set how the sensors will stream data using [recording profiles](/docs/tech_spec/recording_profiles)
        * Access sensor calibration through the streaming manager.
        * Start and stop streaming data from Aria glasses
        * Visualize the live stream
    * [streaming_subscribe](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/streaming_subscribe)
        * Subscribe to a streaming session initiated by device_stream and access sensor data through its observer
        * Visualize the live stream
        * Unsubscribe from a streaming session
* Core Concepts
    * [Sensor Profiles](/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/sdk_sensor_profiles) - access information about Aria Recording Profiles via the CLI or SDK
    * [Streaming Internals](/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/streaming_internals) - deeper dives into how data is streamed
* [API References](/docs/ARK/sdk/api_reference)
* [CLI documentation](/docs/ARK/sdk/cli/cli.mdx)
* [Troubleshooting](/docs/ARK/sdk/sdk_troubleshooting)

If you run into any issues, please check out the [Troubleshooting page](/docs/ARK/sdk/sdk_troubleshooting), post to [Academic Partners Feedback and Support](/docs/ARK/workplacegroup) or email to AriaOps@meta.com
