website/docs/data_utilities/installation/download_codebase.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Download Codebase
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Download Project Aria Tools

## Supported Platforms
The codebase has been tested on the following platforms.
- Fedora 36, 37, 38 recommended
- Ubuntu focal (20.04 LTS) and jammy (22.04 LTS)
- Mac Intel or Mac ARM-based (M1)
    - Mac Big Sur or newer

## Stable versus Develop

Access the latest stable version of Project Aria Tools with git TAGS. The develop version is pushed continuously to the `main` branch.

## Download codebase

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="stable" label="Stable">
```
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools.git -b 1.3.0
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="develop" label="Develop">
```
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools.git -b main
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor Update
Summary: Specified that Project Aria Tools and Client SDK  are only supported on x64 Linux distributions

Reviewed By: seanwarren-meta

Differential Revision: D53203449

fbshipit-source-id: 2b35d23ebf882fa43cd56f8252dcffc2a59946b6

website/docs/data_utilities/installation/download_codebase.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Download Codebase
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Download Project Aria Tools

## Supported Platforms
The codebase is supported on:

- x64 Linux distributions of:
  - Fedora 36, 37, 38
  - Ubuntu focal (20.04 LTS) and jammy (22.04 LTS)
- Mac Intel or Mac ARM-based (M1) with MacOS 11 (Big Sur) or newer


## Stable versus Develop

Access the latest stable version of Project Aria Tools with git TAGS. The develop version is pushed continuously to the `main` branch.

## Download codebase

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="programming-language">
<TabItem value="stable" label="Stable">
```
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools.git -b 1.3.0
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="develop" label="Develop">
```
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools.git -b main
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```
