website/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: C++ Installation
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Install Project Aria Tools for C++

##  Overview
This page provides instructions on how to:
* Build projectaria_tools for C++, without visualization
* Build projectaria_tools for C++, with visualization
   * To install dependencies, follow the instructions for build without visualization first
* Build projectaria_tools in isolation with a package manager (Linux/MacOs/Windows)
   * Most convenient way to check that code and unit test are running when performing Contribution/GitHub PR to the project

## Build from source without visualization

### Step 1 : Install dependencies

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="ubuntu" label="Ubuntu">
```
```bash
# Install build essentials
sudo apt install build-essential git cmake

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo apt install libgtest-dev libgmock-dev libgoogle-glog-dev libfmt-dev \
liblz4-dev libzstd-dev libxxhash-dev libboost-all-dev libpng-dev \
libjpeg-turbo8-dev libturbojpeg0-dev libglew-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libeigen3-dev
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fedora" label="Fedora">
```
```bash
# Install build essentials
sudo dnf install -y git cmake gcc gcc-c++ make

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo dnf install -y gtest-devel gmock-devel glog-devel fmt-devel lz4-devel \
libzstd-devel xxhash-devel boost-devel libpng-devel libjpeg-turbo-devel \
turbojpeg-devel glew-devel eigen3
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
```
If you don't have brew on your mac, here is the [_setup link_](https://brew.sh/).

```bash
# Install build essentials with Homebrew
xcode-select --install

brew install git cmake eigen python3 boost fmt googletest \
glog lz4 zstd xxhash libpng jpeg-turbo glew

```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

### Step 2 : Compile C++ source code

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

mkdir -p build && cd build

# compile the C++ API
cmake ../projectaria_tools/

make -j2
```

---

## Build from source with visualization

### Step 1 : Install dependencies
Follow the above steps to install dependencies [build from source](#build-from-source-without-visualization)

### Step 2 :  Compile Pangolin

The viewers are built using [Pangolin](https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin).

```bash
# compile & install Pangolin
cd /tmp

git clone --recursive https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin.git

mkdir -p Pangolin_Build && cd Pangolin_Build

cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_TOOLS=OFF -DBUILD_PANGOLIN_PYTHON=OFF \
-DBUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF ../Pangolin/

make -j2

sudo make install
```

### Step 3 : Build projectaria_tools with visualization

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

mkdir -p build && cd build

# Build C++ Aria Viewer
cmake ../projectaria_tools -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_TOOLS=ON

make -j2
```

### Step 4 : Verify installation by running the viewer

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

# Running the Aria Viewer with default example data
./tools/visualization/aria_viewer \
--vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs
```

## Build projectaria_tools in isolation with a package manager

You can build projectaria_tools in isolation using pixi on and for your local platform (Linux, macOS Intel/Silicon, Windows) using the exact same command lines.
Pixi is a convenient package and environment manager that simplifies the logic to compile and run projects by defining dependencies and tasks in a single pixi.toml file for all platforms.

:::note
For Windows platform we assume that Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler, MSVC 2017 or 2022 has been installed.
:::

### Step1 Install Pixi

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="unix" label="Linux & macOS">
```bash
# Install Pixi
curl -fsSL https://pixi.sh/install.sh | bash
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">
```bash
# Install Pixi
iwr -useb https://pixi.sh/install.ps1 | iex
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Step2 Compile and test the code

```bash
# When this command line first run, it will collect required dependencies, and then trigger the build and unit test
pixi run run_c
```

### Step3 Access the compiled artifacts

```bash
# Activate the environment
pixi shell
# You can now run and use things from the projects
```

## Troubleshooting

Check the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter any issues.

Commit message:

{Documentation} Fix for C++ Install installation_cpp.mdx (#171)
Summary:
Add hyperlinks to the top of the page and include link to the Troubleshooting Guide at the top, so that people don't need to know to scroll to the bottom for help.

Improve formatting of the steps.

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/facebookresearch/projectaria_tools/pull/171

Reviewed By: haydenstock

Differential Revision: D67640803

Pulled By: SeaOtocinclus

fbshipit-source-id: dee08b6f22080bb1ef58462b90c1e9f119f9ca3f

website/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 30
title: C++ Installation
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Install Project Aria Tools for C++

##  Overview
This page provides instructions on how to:
* [Build projectaria_tools for C++, without visualization](#build-from-source-without-visualization)
* [Build projectaria_tools for C++, with visualization](#build-from-source-with-visualization)
   * To install dependencies, follow the instructions for build without visualization first
* [Build projectaria_tools in isolation with a package manager](#build-projectaria_tools-in-isolation-with-a-package-manager) (Linux/MacOs/Windows)
   * This is the most convenient way to check that code and unit test pass when performing Contribution/GitHub PR to the project

Go to the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter any issues.

## Build from source without visualization

### Step 1: Install dependencies

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="ubuntu" label="Ubuntu">
```
```bash
# Install build essentials
sudo apt install build-essential git cmake

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo apt install libgtest-dev libgmock-dev libgoogle-glog-dev libfmt-dev \
liblz4-dev libzstd-dev libxxhash-dev libboost-all-dev libpng-dev \
libjpeg-turbo8-dev libturbojpeg0-dev libglew-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libeigen3-dev
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="fedora" label="Fedora">
```
```bash
# Install build essentials
sudo dnf install -y git cmake gcc gcc-c++ make

# Install VRS/Pangolin dependencies
sudo dnf install -y gtest-devel gmock-devel glog-devel fmt-devel lz4-devel \
libzstd-devel xxhash-devel boost-devel libpng-devel libjpeg-turbo-devel \
turbojpeg-devel glew-devel eigen3
```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="MacOS">
```
If you don't have brew on your mac, here is the [_setup link_](https://brew.sh/).

```bash
# Install build essentials with Homebrew
xcode-select --install

brew install git cmake eigen python3 boost fmt googletest \
glog lz4 zstd xxhash libpng jpeg-turbo glew

```
```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

### Step 2: Compile C++ source code

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

mkdir -p build && cd build

# compile the C++ API
cmake ../projectaria_tools/

make -j2
```

---

## Build from source with visualization

### Step 1: Install dependencies
Follow the above steps to install dependencies [build from source](#build-from-source-without-visualization)

### Step 2:  Compile Pangolin

The viewers are built using [Pangolin](https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin).

```bash
# compile & install Pangolin
cd /tmp

git clone --recursive https://github.com/stevenlovegrove/Pangolin.git

mkdir -p Pangolin_Build && cd Pangolin_Build

cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DBUILD_TOOLS=OFF -DBUILD_PANGOLIN_PYTHON=OFF \
-DBUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF ../Pangolin/

make -j2

sudo make install
```

### Step 3: Build projectaria_tools with visualization

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

mkdir -p build && cd build

# Build C++ Aria Viewer
cmake ../projectaria_tools -DPROJECTARIA_TOOLS_BUILD_TOOLS=ON

make -j2
```

### Step 4: Verify installation by running the viewer

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/build

# Running the Aria Viewer with default example data
./tools/visualization/aria_viewer \
--vrs ../projectaria_tools/data/mps_sample/sample.vrs
```

## Build projectaria_tools in isolation with a package manager

You can build projectaria_tools in isolation using pixi on and for your local platform (Linux, macOS Intel/Silicon, Windows) using the exact same command lines.
Pixi is a convenient package and environment manager that simplifies the logic to compile and run projects by defining dependencies and tasks in a single pixi.toml file for all platforms.

:::note
For Windows platform we assume that Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler, MSVC 2017 or 2022 has been installed.
:::

### Step 1: Install Pixi

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="unix" label="Linux & macOS">
```bash
# Install Pixi
curl -fsSL https://pixi.sh/install.sh | bash
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">
```bash
# Install Pixi
iwr -useb https://pixi.sh/install.ps1 | iex
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Step 2: Compile and test the code

```bash
# When this command line first run, it will collect required dependencies, and then trigger the build and unit test
pixi run run_c
```

### Step 3: Access the compiled artifacts

```bash
# Activate the environment
pixi shell
# You can now run and use things from the projects
```

## Troubleshooting

Check the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter any issues.
