website/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_python.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Python Package Installation
---

# How to Install the Python Package for Project Aria Tools

This page provides information about how to install the Python utilities using a virtual environment or from source. We recommend that only advanced users install from source.

## Install via virtual environment
### Step 1 : Install Python

To use the Jupyter notebooks featured in our documentation you'll need Python 3.9 or above. To ensure all utilities work effectively, we recommend keeping Python 3 up to date.
* [Python 3 download page](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* To check what what version of Python 3 you have use `python3 --version`

### Step 2 : Create a virtual environment

```bash
rm -rf $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

python3 -m venv $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

source $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env/bin/activate
```

###  Step 3 : Install the required Python packages

```bash
pip3 install --upgrade pip

pip3 install projectaria-tools'[all]'
```
### Step 4 : Verify installation

Verify the Python package installed correctly by running through the two example tutorials in Jupyter notebook.

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

# Basic VRS data access tutorial
jupyter notebook projectaria_tools/core/examples/dataprovider_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb

# Machine Perception Service (MPS) tutorial
jupyter notebook projectaria_tools/core/examples/mps_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb
```

:::tip Python Module Error?
Check the [Python module import error](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting#python-module-import-error) section of [Data Utilities Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter this issue
:::

# Building Python bindings from source (advanced user)
You'll need to install C++ dependencies to build Python bindings from source.

1. Go to the [C++ Installation page](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp) and follow the instructions to [install dependencies](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp)
2. Go to the projectaria_tools code folder
3. Enter the following commands
```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools

pip3 install --upgrade pip

pip3 install --global-option=build_ext --config-settings=compile-args="-j2" .;
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Python annotation
Summary: add python annotation doc for using type hinting for vscode and pycharm

Reviewed By: hxtang

Differential Revision: D49668023

fbshipit-source-id: 5754f3d586ba84f70d52b73b8d014f137bc90452

website/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_python.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Python Package Installation
---

# How to Install the Python Package for Project Aria Tools

This page provides information about how to install the Python utilities using a virtual environment or from source. We recommend that only advanced users install from source.
For details on the python type hinting, please refer to [python type hinting page](/docs/data_utilities/installation/type_hinting)

## Install via virtual environment
### Step 1 : Install Python

To use the Jupyter notebooks featured in our documentation you'll need Python 3.9 or above. To ensure all utilities work effectively, we recommend keeping Python 3 up to date.
* [Python 3 download page](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* To check what what version of Python 3 you have use `python3 --version`

### Step 2 : Create a virtual environment

```bash
rm -rf $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

python3 -m venv $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

source $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env/bin/activate
```

###  Step 3 : Install the required Python packages

```bash
pip3 install --upgrade pip

pip3 install projectaria-tools'[all]'
```
### Step 4 : Verify installation

Verify the Python package installed correctly by running through the two example tutorials in Jupyter notebook.

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox

# Basic VRS data access tutorial
jupyter notebook projectaria_tools/core/examples/dataprovider_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb

# Machine Perception Service (MPS) tutorial
jupyter notebook projectaria_tools/core/examples/mps_quickstart_tutorial.ipynb
```

:::tip Python Module Error?
Check the [Python module import error](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting#python-module-import-error) section of [Data Utilities Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting) if you encounter this issue
:::

# Building Python bindings from source (advanced user)
You'll need to install C++ dependencies to build Python bindings from source.

1. Go to the [C++ Installation page](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp) and follow the instructions to [install dependencies](/docs/data_utilities/installation/installation_cpp)
2. Go to the projectaria_tools code folder
3. Enter the following commands
```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools

pip3 install --upgrade pip

pip3 install --global-option=build_ext --config-settings=compile-args="-j2" .;
```
