website/docs-ark/companion-app/recording.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Control Recording
---

The companion app allows you to start and stop recordings on your glasses. You can also view and edit recording details and manage recordings stored on your glasses.

## Start a recording
1. Navigate to the dashboard tab in the bottom left of your app (home icon).
2. Select **Custom recording**. The recording setup screen will appear. From here, you can name your recording, add notes, and select a recording profile.

![Recording setup](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/new-recording.jpg)

3. Tap recording profile to select a profile. If you have a default profile set, it will auto-populate. Otherwise, you can select a profile from the list.

![Select a profile](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/profiles.jpg)

4. (Optional) when selecting a profile, you can make it the default profile for future recordings.
5. Tap **Begin new recording** and you will see your glasses LED light up once recording has started.

![Recording](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/recording.jpg)

6. Once you've finished recording, you can end the recording by tapping the **Complete recording** button in the app or by pressing the action button on your glasses. If you don't want to save your recording to the glasses, tap **Discard recording**.

### Sensor integrity
You can view the health of the sensors you are recording with by tapping the **Data Integrity and Status** button during a recording.

![Data Integrity and Status](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/data-quality.jpg)

### Consecutive recordings
Note that if you run multiple consecutive recordings, the app will automatically name them with a suffix of the number of recordings you've made. The number will automatically reset if you update the name field on a new recording.

## Manage recordings
Tap the **Recordings** tab in the bottom of your app (second from the left) to view recordings stored on your glasses.

![Recordings](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/recordings.jpg)

### View recording details
Tap a recording to view its details. From here, you can view the recording's name, date, duration, thumbnails, and other useful metadata.

![Recording details](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/my-recording-2.jpg)

### Rename a recording
Tap the **Edit** button to rename a recording. You can also add or edit notes on this screen. Tap **Save** to save your changes.

![Edit recording](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/edit-recording.jpg)

### Delete a recording
Tap the **Delete** button to permanently delete a recording from your glasses.

## Next Steps
Now that you can control recording on your glasses, learn how to set up record and stream over the command line, or download recordings to your computer using the [ClientSDK](/ark/client-sdk/start).

Commit message:

Add v255 features and changelog
Summary:
Adds documentation for new v255 features:
- Programmable action button
- Customizable recording profiles
- Time domain mapping

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D92864273

fbshipit-source-id: 378f181f45a45bb6abd60b89fc5c7fb576d8714f

website/docs-ark/companion-app/recording.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Control Recording
---

The companion app allows you to start and stop recordings on your glasses. You can also view and edit recording details and manage recordings stored on your glasses.

## Start a recording
1. Navigate to the dashboard tab in the bottom left of your app (home icon).
2. Select **Custom recording**. The recording setup screen will appear. From here, you can name your recording, add notes, and select a recording profile.

![Recording setup](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/new-recording.jpg)

3. Tap recording profile to select a profile. If you have a default profile set, it will auto-populate. Otherwise, you can select a profile from the list.

![Select a profile](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/profiles.jpg)

4. (Optional) when selecting a profile, you can make it the default profile for future recordings.
5. (Optional) tap **Advanced Settings** to configure additional options such as the NTP Server (see [NTP Server](#ntp-server) below).
6. Tap **Begin new recording** and you will see your glasses LED light up once recording has started.

![Recording](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/recording.jpg)

7. Once you've finished recording, you can end the recording by tapping the **Complete recording** button in the app or by pressing the action button on your glasses. If you don't want to save your recording to the glasses, tap **Discard recording**.

### NTP Server
NTP (Network Time Protocol) is a time synchronization mode that enables the glasses to synchronize their timestamps with an NTP server. This provides more accurate UTC timestamps in your recording data.

To enable NTP, tap **Advanced Settings** on the recording setup screen and toggle the NTP Server option. When enabled, the glasses will periodically sync their clock with the configured NTP server during the recording.

Enable NTP when you need:
- Accurate UTC timestamps that can be correlated with external systems or events
- Rough time synchronization across multiple devices recording simultaneously

:::note
NTP timestamps are not guaranteed to be monotonic or have a stable clock speed. Do not compute durations by subtracting two NTP-synced UTC timestamps. Use device timestamps for duration calculations instead.
:::

### Sensor integrity
You can view the health of the sensors you are recording with by tapping the **Data Integrity and Status** button during a recording.

![Data Integrity and Status](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/data-quality.jpg)

### Consecutive recordings
Note that if you run multiple consecutive recordings, the app will automatically name them with a suffix of the number of recordings you've made. The number will automatically reset if you update the name field on a new recording.

## Manage recordings
Tap the **Recordings** tab in the bottom of your app (second from the left) to view recordings stored on your glasses.

![Recordings](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/recordings.jpg)

### View recording details
Tap a recording to view its details. From here, you can view the recording's name, date, duration, thumbnails, and other useful metadata.

![Recording details](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/my-recording-2.jpg)

### Rename a recording
Tap the **Edit** button to rename a recording. You can also add or edit notes on this screen. Tap **Save** to save your changes.

![Edit recording](/img/docs-ark/companion-app/edit-recording.jpg)

### Delete a recording
Tap the **Delete** button to permanently delete a recording from your glasses.

## Next Steps
Now that you can control recording on your glasses, learn how to set up record and stream over the command line, or download recordings to your computer using the [ClientSDK](/ark/client-sdk/start).
