website/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Fetch Device Info & Status
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# How to Connect Aria Glasses and Fetch Info Using the Client SDK

This page shows how to run the code sample `device_connect` and provides a code walkthrough of its capabilities.

`device_connect enables` you to validate that your Aria glasses have successfully connected to your computer by fetching:
* Device Status information, such as such as battery level, Wi-Fi SSID or Wi-Fi IP address
* Device information such as the device serial number or device model



## Run `device_connect`

In terminal, go to the samples directory and run `python device_connect`:

```bash
cd samples
python -m device_connect
```

You should then see:

```
[AriaSdk:DeviceControllerImpl][INFO]: Connecting to device <serial_number> using ADB
[AriaSdk:DeviceClientImpl][INFO]: Connection established with device <serial_number>
Aria Device Status: battery level 100, wifi ssid <xxxxxxxx> , wifi ip <192.168.xx.xx>, mode DeviceMode.Partner
Aria Device Info: model Aria, serial <serial_number>, manufacturer Facebook
Aria Device Connected, disconnecting
```

## Code walkthrough

### 1. Set Up
1. Import the Aria Client SDK from aria.sdk

```python
import aria.sdk as aria
```

2.  Set the log level for the SDK (optional)
    * By default, it is set to `Info`, use `Trace` or `Debug` for more detailed logs.

```python
aria.set_log_level(aria.Level.Info)

### 2. Create a Device Client

`DeviceClient` is the main SDK entry point. Once created it is used to retrieve a `Device` instance providing various SDKs features such as recording, streaming or fetching device information and status.

By default, `DeviceClient` will attempt to connect to Aria glasses over USB. To connect to glasses over WiFi configure you can configure the `DeviceClient` by creating a `DeviceClientConfig`, setting `ip_v4_address` and setting the config.

:::info
You can find the Glasses IP address in the Companion App under `WiFi` status.
:::

```python
device_client = aria.DeviceClient()

client_config = aria.DeviceClientConfig()
if args.ip_address:
    client_config.ip_v4_address = args.ip_address
device_client.set_client_config(client_config)
```

### 3. Connect to a Device
Connect to the Aria glasses and retrieve a `Device` instance.

```python
device = device_client.connect()

### 2. Fetch device status

Use the following commands to:
   - Obtain the status of the Aria glasses.
   - Print details such as battery level, connected Wi-Fi SSID, Wi-Fi IP address, and device mode

```python
status = device.status
print(
    "Aria Device Status: battery level {0}, wifi ssid {1}, wifi ip {2}, mode {3}".format(
        status.battery_level,
        status.wifi_ssid,
        status.wifi_ip_address,
        status.device_mode,
    )
)
```

### 3. Retrieve device information

Use the following commands to:
   - Get comprehensive information about the Aria glasses
   - Display device-specific details like its model, serial number, and manufacturer.

```python
info = device.info
print(
    "Aria Device Info: model {}, serial {}, manufacturer {}".format(
        info.model, info.serial, info.manufacturer
    )
)
```

### 4. Disconnect

Once all operations have been completed, make sure you disconnect your glasses to release any held resources.

```python
device_client.disconnect(device)
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} SDK Documentation Improvments
Summary:
* Make Python commands in virtual environment consistent (just use python)
* Fix formatting issues
* Improve information about how to find the glasses IP Address
* Add Dashboard information to Mobile Companion app

Reviewed By: alsun2001

Differential Revision: D50271489

fbshipit-source-id: e3adc31a9ba3f1832dc636019c9ffb0bf1d9b428

website/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Fetch Device Info & Status
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Connect Glasses and Fetch Info Using the Client SDK

## Overview

This page shows how to run the code sample `device_connect` to connect to Project Aria Glasses and fetch info. It also provides a code walkthrough of its capabilities.

`device_connect enables` you to validate that your Aria glasses have successfully connected to your computer by fetching:
* Device Status information, such as such as battery level, Wi-Fi SSID or Wi-Fi IP address
* Device information such as the device serial number or device model



## Run `device_connect`

In Terminal, from the samples directory, run:

```bash
python -m device_connect
```

You should then see:

```
[AriaSdk:DeviceControllerImpl][INFO]: Connecting to device <serial_number> using ADB
[AriaSdk:DeviceClientImpl][INFO]: Connection established with device <serial_number>
Aria Device Status: battery level 100, wifi ssid <xxxxxxxx> , wifi ip <192.168.xx.xx>, mode DeviceMode.Partner
Aria Device Info: model Aria, serial <serial_number>
Aria Device Connected, disconnecting
```

## Code walkthrough

### 1. Set Up
1. Import the Aria Client SDK from aria.sdk

```python
import aria.sdk as aria
```

2.  Set the log level for the SDK (optional)
    * By default, it is set to `Info`, use `Trace` or `Debug` for more detailed logs.

```python
aria.set_log_level(aria.Level.Info)
```

### 2. Create a Device Client

`DeviceClient` is the main SDK entry point. Once created it is used to retrieve a `Device` instance providing various SDKs features such as recording, streaming or fetching device information and status.

By default, `DeviceClient` will attempt to connect to Aria glasses over USB. To connect to glasses over Wi-Fi configure you can configure the `DeviceClient` by creating a `DeviceClientConfig`, setting `ip_v4_address` and setting the config.

:::info
Get your Aria glasses' IP address from the Mobile Companion App by tapping [Wi-Fi on the Dashboard](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app#dashboard).
:::

```python
device_client = aria.DeviceClient()

client_config = aria.DeviceClientConfig()
if args.ip_address:
    client_config.ip_v4_address = args.ip_address
device_client.set_client_config(client_config)
```

### 3. Connect to a Device
Connect to the Aria glasses and retrieve a `Device` instance.

```python
device = device_client.connect()
```

### 2. Fetch device status

Use the following commands to:
   - Obtain the status of the Aria glasses.
   - Print details such as battery level, connected Wi-Fi SSID, Wi-Fi IP address, and device mode

```python
status = device.status
print(
    "Aria Device Status: battery level {0}, wifi ssid {1}, wifi ip {2}, mode {3}".format(
        status.battery_level,
        status.wifi_ssid,
        status.wifi_ip_address,
        status.device_mode,
    )
)
```

### 3. Retrieve device information

Use the following commands to:
   - Get comprehensive information about the Aria glasses
   - Display device-specific details like its model, serial number, and manufacturer.

```python
info = device.info
print(
    "Aria Device Info: model {}, serial {}, manufacturer {}".format(
        info.model, info.serial, info.manufacturer
    )
)
```

### 4. Disconnect

Once all operations have been completed, make sure you disconnect your glasses to release any held resources.

```python
device_client.disconnect(device)
```
