website/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/samples.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Code Samples
---

# Project Aria Client SDK Code Samples


This section provides code samples and walkthroughs for using the Aria Client SDK to interact with the Project Aria glasses.

* [Connection](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection.mdx)
    * Connect to the Aria glasses using USB and Wi-Fi
    * Fetch device information, such as the device serial number
    * Fetch device status, such as battery level or Wi-Fi SSID.
* [Recording](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_recording.mdx)
    * Start and stop recording on an Aria device via USB and Wi-Fi
    * Set a [recording profile](/tech_spec/recording_profiles.mdx) for a recording
* [Streaming Subscription](/ARK/sdk/samples/streaming_subscribe.mdx)
    * Subscribe to and unsubscribe from a streaming session
    * Visualize the live stream
* [Streaming and Visualizing All Live Sensor Data](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream.mdx)
    * Start and stop streaming from an Aria device to a computer via USB and Wi-Fi
    * Add callbacks to visualize and manipulate the streamed data
* [Streaming Undistorted RGB Image Using Calibration](/ARK/sdk/samples/undistort_rgb_image.mdx)
    * Start and stop streaming from an Aria device to a computer via USB and Wi-Fi
    * Access sensor calibration and undistort an RGB live stream
* [TICSync Time Synchronization](/ARK/sdk/samples/ticsync_sample.mdx)
    * Requires at least two Project Aria glasses
    * Deeper dive and more granular control of features than commands provided in [How to Create Time Synchronized Recordings with Multiple Aria Glasses](/ARK/sdk/ticsync.mdx)

Make sure you have finished the [Setup Guide](/ARK/sdk/setup.mdx).

We recommend starting with [device_connect.py](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection.mdx) to validate that your Aria glasses have connected successfully.

Commit message:

{Documentation} TICSync GoogleColab links
Summary:
* Add links to TICSync GoogleColab tutorial
* Other minor improvements

Reviewed By: PiotrBrzyski

Differential Revision: D58895931

fbshipit-source-id: 9ccfcf30a96092472913e18f4c6fa5b14677b0bd

website/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/samples.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Code Samples
---

# Project Aria Client SDK Code Samples


This section provides code samples and walkthroughs for using the Aria Client SDK to interact with the Project Aria glasses.

Make sure you have finished the [Setup Guide](/ARK/sdk/setup.mdx) before progressing to code samples. If you follow the guide, code samples are run from `~/projectaria_client_sdk_samples`:

```
cd ~/projectaria_client_sdk_samples
```

Except for Time Synchronization TICSync code samples, which are run from `~/projectaria_client_sdk_samples/ticsync`.

```
cd ~/projectaria_client_sdk_samples/ticsync
```

We recommend starting with [device_connect.py](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection.mdx) to validate that your Aria glasses have connected successfully.


* [Connection](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_connection.mdx)
    * Connect to the Aria glasses using USB and Wi-Fi
    * Fetch device information, such as the device serial number
    * Fetch device status, such as battery level or Wi-Fi SSID.
* [Recording](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_recording.mdx)
    * Start and stop recording on an Aria device via USB and Wi-Fi
    * Set a [recording profile](/tech_spec/recording_profiles.mdx) for a recording
* [Streaming Subscription](/ARK/sdk/samples/streaming_subscribe.mdx)
    * Subscribe to and unsubscribe from a streaming session
    * Visualize the live stream
* [Streaming and Visualizing All Live Sensor Data](/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream.mdx)
    * Start and stop streaming from an Aria device to a computer via USB and Wi-Fi
    * Add callbacks to visualize and manipulate the streamed data
* [Streaming Undistorted RGB Image Using Calibration](/ARK/sdk/samples/undistort_rgb_image.mdx)
    * Start and stop streaming from an Aria device to a computer via USB and Wi-Fi
    * Access sensor calibration and undistort an RGB live stream
* [TICSync Time Synchronization](/ARK/sdk/samples/ticsync_sample.mdx)
    * Requires at least two Project Aria glasses
    * Deeper dive and more granular control of features than commands provided in [How to Create Time Synchronized Recordings with Multiple Aria Glasses](/ARK/sdk/ticsync.mdx)
