website/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/streaming_subscribe.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 40
title: Streaming Subscription
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Subscribe to Aria Streaming Data

## Overview
This `streaming_subscribe` example shows how to subscribe to and unsubscribe from a streaming session as well as visualize the live stream, using the [Project Aria Client SDK](/docs/ARK/sdk).

## Stream and subscribe examples

### Example 1: Stream and subscribe over USB
In this example, the CLI is used to initiate streaming and the Client SDK is used to subscribe to the stream. To find out how to start streaming using the SDK, go to [Streaming Sensor Data](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream).

1. Plug your Aria glasses into your computer, using the provided cable
2. From the samples directory in Terminal, run:

```bash
aria streaming start --interface usb --use-ephemeral-certs
```

3. Wait for the stream to start then run:

```bash
python -m streaming_subscribe
```

You should then see:

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/ARK/sdk/streaming_subscribe.png')} alt="Aria Live Stream Window"/>
</div>

4. There are several ways you can stop streaming:
  * Press q or ESC to quit the app
  * Use Ctrl-C to terminate in terminal
  * Press the Capture button on your glasses

### Example 2: Using Wi-Fi

To use Wi-Fi to initiate streaming or to stream data, alter the `aria streaming start --interface usb --use-ephemeral-certs` command.

* To stream data over Wi-Fi, use `--interface wifi`
* To initiate streaming over Wi-Fi, add `--device-ip <glasses IP>`
  *  Open the Mobile Companion app and tap [Wi-Fi on the Dashboard](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app#dashboard) to see your glasses' IP address


### Code walkthrough

#### 1. Configure the subscription
Use `subscriber_data_type` attribute to set the type of data the client subscribes to.

```python
config = streaming_client.subscription_config
config.subscriber_data_type = (
    aria.StreamingDataType.Rgb | aria.StreamingDataType.Slam
)
```

#### 2. Set message queue size
The message queue size determines how many recent frames will be retained. A smaller queue size is utilized to process only the most recent data.

```python
config.message_queue_size[aria.StreamingDataType.Rgb] = 1
config.message_queue_size[aria.StreamingDataType.Slam] = 1
```

#### 3. Set streaming security options
Security options are set to use ephemeral certificates through a `StreamingSecurityOptions` instance. Go to [the Streaming Internals page](/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/streaming_internals) for various aspects of streaming security and how certificates are used.

```python
options = aria.StreamingSecurityOptions()
options.use_ephemeral_certs = True
config.security_options = options
```
#### 4. Create an StreamingClient observer and attach it
Find more description of observer in the [streaming code sample](http://localhost:3000/projectaria_tools/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream#3-write-callbacks-for-each-sensor-data-stream)
```python
class StreamingClientObserver:
    def __init__(self):
        self.images = {}

    def on_image_received(self, image: np.array, record: ImageDataRecord):
        self.images[record.camera_id] = image

observer = StreamingClientObserver()
streaming_client.set_streaming_client_observer(observer)
```

#### 5. Start subscribing and listen to the live stream
The client begins listening for incoming streaming data from the subscribed data types.

```python
streaming_client.subscribe()
```

#### 6. Visualize the live stream
  - RGB and SLAM images are visualized in separate windows using OpenCV. The images are processed and displayed the streaming stops or the application quit. We rotate the image and stack the SLAM images so that they are shown in a single window.


```python
while not quit_keypress():
    # Render the RGB image
    if aria.CameraId.Rgb in observer.images:
        rgb_image = np.rot90(observer.images[aria.CameraId.Rgb], -1)
        rgb_image = cv2.cvtColor(rgb_image, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
        cv2.imshow(rgb_window, rgb_image)
        del observer.images[aria.CameraId.Rgb]

    # Stack and display the SLAM images
    if (
        aria.CameraId.Slam1 in observer.images
        and aria.CameraId.Slam2 in observer.images
    ):
        slam1_image = np.rot90(observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam1], -1)
        slam2_image = np.rot90(observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam2], -1)
        cv2.imshow(slam_window, np.hstack((slam1_image, slam2_image)))
        del observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam1]
        del observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam2]
```


:::note
Cameras on Aria glasses are installed sideways. The visualizer rotates the raw image data for a more natural view.
:::

### 7. Unsubscribe from the stream and free resources
   - Unsubscribing stops the client from listening to streaming data and cleans up resources.

```python
streaming_client.unsubscribe()
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} clientsdk - streaming_subscribe documentation
Summary: Made a number of changes to streaming_subscribe to improve accuracy and clarity of instructions, as well as fixing certain writing errors. Furthermore, I added the hotspot functionality. I also left comments ("<!--") regarding questions I have and potential further improvements. While I previously always said that these notes would require stakeholder review before I could have the information needed to make (or not make) additional changes, it's been months and no one has answered my questions. Combined with the urgency of the ARK release, this has created a situation in which the comments will remain in the pushed version, as will they remain until my questions are addressed.

Reviewed By: SeaOtocinclus

Differential Revision: D72671387

fbshipit-source-id: c00d7ef6d350c8b9806e0960722a02dc6445efa9

website/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/streaming_subscribe.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 40
title: Streaming Subscription
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

# Subscribe to Aria Streaming Data

## Overview
This `streaming_subscribe` example shows how to subscribe to and unsubscribe from a streaming session as well as visualize the live stream, using the [Project Aria Client SDK](/docs/ARK/sdk).

## Stream and subscribe examples

### Example 1: Stream and subscribe over USB
In this example, the CLI is used to initiate streaming and the Client SDK is used to subscribe to the stream. To find out how to start streaming using the SDK, go to [Streaming Sensor Data](/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream).

1. Plug your Aria glasses into your computer, using the provided cable
2. From the samples directory in Terminal, run:

```bash
aria streaming start --interface usb --use-ephemeral-certs
```

3. Wait for the stream to start then run:

```bash
python -m streaming_subscribe
```

You should then see:

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/ARK/sdk/streaming_subscribe.png')} alt="Aria Live Stream Window"/>
</div>

4. There are several ways you can stop streaming:
  * Press q or ESC to quit the app
  * Use Ctrl-C to terminate in terminal
  * Press the Capture button on your glasses

### Example 2: Using Wi-Fi

To use Wi-Fi to initiate streaming or to stream data, alter the `aria streaming start --interface usb --use-ephemeral-certs` command.

* To stream data over Wi-Fi, use `--interface wifi`
* To initiate streaming over Wi-Fi, add `--device-ip <glasses IP>`
  *  Open the Mobile Companion app and tap [Wi-Fi on the Dashboard](/docs/ARK/mobile_companion_app#dashboard) to see your glasses' IP address

### Example 3: Stream and subscribe in hotspot mode

In this example, the CLI is used to initiate streaming and the Client SDK is used to subscribe to the stream.

1. From the samples directory in Terminal, run:

```bash
aria streaming start --interface hotspot --use-ephemeral-certs
```

2. Wait for the stream to start: once it does, it should display the details of the hotspot connection. Go to the Wi-Fi settings on your computer and connect to the glasses' hotspot connection using the printed SSID and passphrase information.

3. Run the below command to subscribe to the streamed data:

```bash
python -m streaming_subscribe --update_iptables
```

4. There are several ways you can stop streaming:
  * Use Ctrl-C to terminate in Terminal.
  * Press the Capture button on your glasses.

### Code walkthrough

#### 1. Configure the subscription
Use `subscriber_data_type` attribute to set the type of data the client subscribes to.

```python
config = streaming_client.subscription_config
config.subscriber_data_type = (
    aria.StreamingDataType.Rgb | aria.StreamingDataType.Slam
)
```

#### 2. Set message queue size
The message queue size determines how many recent frames will be retained. A smaller queue size is utilized to process only the most recent data.

```python
config.message_queue_size[aria.StreamingDataType.Rgb] = 1
config.message_queue_size[aria.StreamingDataType.Slam] = 1
```

#### 3. Set streaming security options
Security options are set to use ephemeral certificates through a `StreamingSecurityOptions` instance. Go to [the Streaming Internals page](/docs/ARK/sdk/concepts/streaming_internals) for various aspects of streaming security and how certificates are used.

```python
options = aria.StreamingSecurityOptions()
options.use_ephemeral_certs = True
config.security_options = options
```
#### 4. Create an StreamingClient observer and attach it
Find more description of observer in the [streaming code sample](http://localhost:3000/projectaria_tools/docs/ARK/sdk/samples/device_stream#3-write-callbacks-for-each-sensor-data-stream)
```python
class StreamingClientObserver:
    def __init__(self):
        self.images = {}

    def on_image_received(self, image: np.array, record: ImageDataRecord):
        self.images[record.camera_id] = image

observer = StreamingClientObserver()
streaming_client.set_streaming_client_observer(observer)
```

#### 5. Start subscribing and listen to the live stream
The client begins listening for incoming streaming data from the subscribed data types.

```python
streaming_client.subscribe()
```

#### 6. Visualize the live stream
  - RGB and SLAM images are visualized in separate windows using OpenCV. The images are processed and displayed the streaming stops or the application quit. We rotate the image and stack the SLAM images so that they are shown in a single window.


```python
while not quit_keypress():
    # Render the RGB image
    if aria.CameraId.Rgb in observer.images:
        rgb_image = np.rot90(observer.images[aria.CameraId.Rgb], -1)
        rgb_image = cv2.cvtColor(rgb_image, cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)
        cv2.imshow(rgb_window, rgb_image)
        del observer.images[aria.CameraId.Rgb]

    # Stack and display the SLAM images
    if (
        aria.CameraId.Slam1 in observer.images
        and aria.CameraId.Slam2 in observer.images
    ):
        slam1_image = np.rot90(observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam1], -1)
        slam2_image = np.rot90(observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam2], -1)
        cv2.imshow(slam_window, np.hstack((slam1_image, slam2_image)))
        del observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam1]
        del observer.images[aria.CameraId.Slam2]
```


:::note
Cameras on Aria glasses are installed sideways. The visualizer rotates the raw image data for a more natural view.
:::

### 7. Unsubscribe from the stream and free resources
   - Unsubscribing stops the client from listening to streaming data and cleans up resources.

```python
streaming_client.unsubscribe()
```
