website/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_multi_slam.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1000
title: Multi-SLAM
---

Multi-SLAM is a Project Aria [Machine Perception Service (MPS)](/ARK/mps/mps.mdx) that can be requested on two or more recordings. It creates SLAM MPS outputs in a shared co-ordinate frame.

Open datasets that contain Multi-SLAM outputs where there are recordings with 2 or more Project Aria glasses:

* [Aria Everyday Activities (AEA) dataset](/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aria_everyday_activities_dataset.mdx)
* [Aria Digital Twin (ADT) dataset](/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/aria_digital_twin_dataset.mdx)

The Multi-SLAM outputs are mostly the same as the standard [SLAM MPS outputs](slam.mdx). The differences are:

* Multi-SLAM can only be requested via MPS CLI
* All the recordings that were aligned together will have the same `graph_uid` in the output.
* The output may contain multiple aligned islands and multiple consecutive graph_uids.

Outputs are saved to a user defined directory. Each numbered folder contains the outputs for a specific VRS file:

```
└── multi_slam_output # user defined directory for outputs
    ├── 0
    │   ├── slam
    │   │    ├── closed_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── online_calibration.jsonl
    │   │    ├── open_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── semidense_observations.csv.gz
    │   │    ├── semidense_points.csv.gz
    │   │    └── summary.json
    │   ├── vrs_health_check.json
    │   └── vrs_health_check_slam.json
    ├── 1
    │   ├── slam
    │   │    ├── closed_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── online_calibration.jsonl
    │   │    ├── open_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── semidense_observations.csv.gz
    │   │    ├── semidense_points.csv.gz
    │   │    └── summary.json
    │   ├── vrs_health_check.json
    │   └── vrs_health_check_slam.json
    └── vrs_to_multi_slam.json
```

`vrs_to_multi_slam.json` associates the VRS file name with a numbered folder, for example:

```
{
  "/example/recording1.vrs": "0",
  "/example/recording2.vrs": "1",
  "/example2/recording1.vrs": "2",
}

```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Minor Visualization Update
Summary:
* Add cross links to visualization tools
* Add Multi-SLAM details to AEA dataset

Reviewed By: yzouyzouyzou

Differential Revision: D54391532

fbshipit-source-id: 66c255007e93dcbd8cefb186052f24591d510dcf

website/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_multi_slam.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1000
title: Multi-SLAM
---

Multi-SLAM is a Project Aria [Machine Perception Service (MPS)](/ARK/mps/mps.mdx) that can be requested on two or more recordings. It creates SLAM MPS outputs in a shared co-ordinate frame.

Multi-SLAM data can be visualized in the Python version of [MPS Viewer](/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#multi-slam).

Open datasets that contain Multi-SLAM outputs where there are recordings with 2 or more Project Aria glasses:

* [Aria Everyday Activities (AEA) dataset](/open_datasets/aria_everyday_activities_dataset/aria_everyday_activities_dataset.mdx)
* [Aria Digital Twin (ADT) dataset](/open_datasets/aria_digital_twin_dataset/aria_digital_twin_dataset.mdx)

The Multi-SLAM outputs are mostly the same as the standard [SLAM MPS outputs](slam.mdx). The differences are:

* Multi-SLAM can only be requested via MPS CLI
* All the recordings that were aligned together will have the same `graph_uid` in the output.
* The output may contain multiple aligned islands and multiple consecutive graph_uids.

Outputs are saved to a user defined directory. Each numbered folder contains the outputs for a specific VRS file:

```
└── multi_slam_output # user defined directory for outputs
    ├── 0
    │   ├── slam
    │   │    ├── closed_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── online_calibration.jsonl
    │   │    ├── open_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── semidense_observations.csv.gz
    │   │    ├── semidense_points.csv.gz
    │   │    └── summary.json
    │   ├── vrs_health_check.json
    │   └── vrs_health_check_slam.json
    ├── 1
    │   ├── slam
    │   │    ├── closed_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── online_calibration.jsonl
    │   │    ├── open_loop_trajectory.csv
    │   │    ├── semidense_observations.csv.gz
    │   │    ├── semidense_points.csv.gz
    │   │    └── summary.json
    │   ├── vrs_health_check.json
    │   └── vrs_health_check_slam.json
    └── vrs_to_multi_slam.json
```

`vrs_to_multi_slam.json` associates the VRS file name with a numbered folder, for example:

```
{
  "/example/recording1.vrs": "0",
  "/example/recording2.vrs": "1",
  "/example2/recording1.vrs": "2",
}

```
