website/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_calibration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: Calibration Data
---

# MPS Output - Calibration

Online calibration is generated as part of SLAM (Location in the Desktop Companion app) [MPS requests](/ARK/mps/mps.mdx).

* `online_calibration.jsonl` file

The [Aria Sensor Viewer](/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#run-aria-sensor-viewer) displays the relative position and orientation of most Project Aria glasses sensors (cameras, IMUs, microphones, magnetometer & barometer) in a common reference.


## Online calibration

`online_calibration.jsonl` contains one json online calibration record per line. Each record is a json dict object that contains timestamp metadata and the result of online calibration for the cameras and IMUs.

The calibration parameters contain [intrinsics](/tech_insights/camera_intrinsic_models.mdx) and [extrinsics](/data_formats/coordinate_convention/3d_coordinate_frame_convention.mdx) parameters for each sensor as well as a time offsets which best temporally align their data.

For how to load and read online calibrations in Python and C++, please check the [code example](/data_utilities/core_code_snippets/mps.mdx#online-calibration)

Commit message:

{Documentation} MPS - Update the doc for RGB online calibration.
Summary: Update documentation for RGB online calibration following V1.1.0 MPS SLAM release update.

Reviewed By: SeaOtocinclus

Differential Revision: D63053501

fbshipit-source-id: 90fda928071c5f75b0f47d31875116107b8ad080

website/docs/data_formats/mps/slam/mps_calibration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: Calibration Data
---

# MPS Output - Calibration

Online calibration is generated as part of SLAM (Location in the Desktop Companion app) [MPS requests](/ARK/mps/mps.mdx).

* `online_calibration.jsonl` file

The [Aria Sensor Viewer](/data_utilities/visualization/visualization_python.mdx#run-aria-sensor-viewer) displays the relative position and orientation of most Project Aria glasses sensors (cameras, IMUs, microphones, magnetometer & barometer) in a common reference.


## Online calibration

`online_calibration.jsonl` contains one json online calibration record per line. Each record is a json dict object that contains timestamp metadata and the result of online calibration for the cameras and IMUs. Note that after the v1.1.0 MPS SLAM release, we improved the RGB camera online calibration for time offsets estimation, intrinsics/extrinsics estimation, as well as exposing the image readout time for compensating the rolling shutter effect.

The calibration parameters contain [intrinsics](/tech_insights/camera_intrinsic_models.mdx) and [extrinsics](/data_formats/coordinate_convention/3d_coordinate_frame_convention.mdx) parameters for each sensor as well as a time offsets which best temporally align their data.

For how to load and read online calibrations in Python and C++, please check the [code example](/data_utilities/core_code_snippets/mps.mdx#online-calibration)
