website/docs/open_datasets/aria_synthetic_environments_dataset/ase_getting_started.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting Started
---

# Getting Started With the Synthetic Environments Dataset

This section will go over everything you need to know to get up and running using Aria Synthetic Environment(ASE) visualisers and data loaders. ASE tooling contains:

* The install instructions specific to ASE
* A quick tutorial which runs through a couple of Jupyter notebook for loading and visualising sample data.

[**Jupyter notebook error**](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting#jupyter-notebook-error) : If you have problems using Jupyter examples, please [upgrade python3](https://www.python.org/downloads/) to the latest version.

## Quickstart Tutorial - Python

### Step 0 : Check system requirements and download codebase

[Ensure your system is supported and then download projectaria_tools codebase from the github](/docs/data_utilities/installation/download_codebase)

### Step 1 : Install Python

Ensure python3 is installed on the system (check with `python3 --version)`

### Step 2 : Create a virtual environment

```bash
rm -rf $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

python3 -m venv $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

source $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env/bin/activate
```

### Step 3 : Install projectaria_tools from pypi

```bash
pip3 install --upgrade pip

pip3 install projectaria-tools'[all]'
```

The ASE python tooling for projection of 3D points to RGB images is included in the projectaria_tools package, so no further steps are needed. The following packages used in this tutorial are standard python packages that are also included in project_aria_tools build.

* `plotly`
* `numpy`
* `scipy`
* `pandas`
* `matplotlib`
* `requests`
* `tqdm`
* `jupyter`


### Step 4 : Download Sample Data

1.  Navigate to the [ASE page](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/ase/) on the Project Aria Website and follow the instructions to download the download-urls file. This same download-urls file can be used for any dataset download until the link expires
2.  Setup ASE local folder and move download-urls file:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data

mv $HOME/Downloads/aria_synthetic_environments_dataset_download_urls.json $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data/
```

3. Download sample dataset using the download tool:

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools

python3 projects/AriaSyntheticEnvironment/aria_synthetic_environments_downloader.py --set train --scene-ids 0-10 --cdn-file $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data/aria_synthetic_environments_dataset_download_urls.json --output-dir $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data --unzip True
```

### Step 5 : Run the visualisation notebooks
```
jupyter notebook projects/AriaSyntheticEnvironment/tutorial/ase_tutorial_notebook.ipynb
```

Commit message:

{Documentation} Updates to the Aria Synthetic Environments Wiki
Summary:
General improvements to the Aria Synthetic Environments documentation.

Updates to the Getting Started, Download, Data Format and Data Tools pages including:
* Rephrasing of some sentences.
* Standardizing to US English.
* More consistent formatting and capitalization.
* Correction of minor typos.

Reviewed By: SeaOtocinclus

Differential Revision: D46777011

fbshipit-source-id: b3028a15e851482b781a5211547ecb3eeedae58c

website/docs/open_datasets/aria_synthetic_environments_dataset/ase_getting_started.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Getting Started
---

# Getting Started With the Synthetic Environments Dataset

This section will cover everything you need to know to get up and running using Aria Synthetic Environments (ASE) visualizers and data loaders. ASE tooling contains:

* The install instructions specific to ASE
* A quick tutorial which runs through a couple of Jupyter notebook for loading and visualizing sample data.

[**Jupyter notebook error**](/docs/data_utilities/installation/troubleshooting#jupyter-notebook-error): If you have problems using Jupyter examples, please [upgrade python3](https://www.python.org/downloads/) to the latest version.

## Quickstart Tutorial - Python

### Step 0 : Check system requirements and download codebase

[Ensure your system is supported and then download projectaria_tools codebase from the github](/docs/data_utilities/installation/download_codebase)

### Step 1 : Install Python

Ensure python3 is installed on the system (check with `python3 --version)`

### Step 2 : Create a virtual environment

```bash
rm -rf $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

python3 -m venv $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env

source $HOME/projectaria_tools_python_env/bin/activate
```

### Step 3 : Install projectaria_tools from pypi

```bash
pip3 install --upgrade pip

pip3 install projectaria-tools'[all]'
```

The ASE python tooling for projection of 3D points to RGB images is included in the projectaria_tools package, so no further steps are needed. The following packages used in this tutorial are standard python packages that are also included in project_aria_tools build.

* `plotly`
* `numpy`
* `scipy`
* `pandas`
* `matplotlib`
* `requests`
* `tqdm`
* `jupyter`


### Step 4 : Download sample data

1.  Navigate to the [ASE page](https://www.projectaria.com/datasets/ase/) on the Project Aria Website and follow the instructions to download the download-urls file. This same download-urls file can be used for any dataset download until the link expires
2.  Setup ASE local folder and move download-urls file:

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data

mv $HOME/Downloads/aria_synthetic_environments_dataset_download_urls.json $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data/
```

3. Download sample dataset using the download tool:

```bash
cd $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools

python3 projects/AriaSyntheticEnvironment/aria_synthetic_environments_downloader.py --set train --scene-ids 0-10 --cdn-file $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data/aria_synthetic_environments_dataset_download_urls.json --output-dir $HOME/Documents/projectaria_sandbox/projectaria_tools_ase_data --unzip True
```

### Step 5 : Run the visualization notebooks
```
jupyter notebook projects/AriaSyntheticEnvironment/tutorial/ase_tutorial_notebook.ipynb
```
